Visitor visa

Who can apply
On this page
Who can get a visa
Some people are not allowed to enter Canada
Minor children travelling to Canada
Who can get a visa
You must meet some basic requirements to get a visitor visa.

You must:

have a valid travel document, like a passport
be in good health
have no criminal or immigration-related convictions
convince an immigration officer that you have ties—such as a job, home, financial assets or family—that will take you back to your home country
convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit
have enough money for your stay
The amount of money you will need depends on how long you will stay and if you will stay in a hotel, or with friends or relatives.
You may also need a medical exam and letter of invitation from someone who lives in Canada.

Check the list of documents you need based on your situation.
Valid passports and other travel documents needed to come to Canada
When you come to Canada, you must travel with a valid passport or travel document.

Your passport or travel document is considered valid if it’s:

legal
not expired, and
accepted by us (Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada)
How long your passport needs to be valid
Check the expiry date on your passport. Depending on the program you’re applying for, you may want to renew your passport before you submit your application.

Visiting, working and studying temporarily
We can’t issue you a work permit, study permit or visitor record that is valid past the expiry date of your passport.

If you get a new passport after you arrive in Canada, you can apply to extend your stay.

Immigrating through Express Entry
If you’re applying through Express Entry, you should renew your passport if it expires within 6 months from the day you apply for permanent residence. Then, update your new passport information in your application. This will ensure it’s valid when we process your application.

Keep 1 page in your passport free
If you’re from a visa-required country, you need at least 1 free page in your passport or travel document. That’s where we’ll stick your visitor visa or permanent resident visa.

If you have a valid visa in an old passport, you may still be able to use it to travel to Canada.

Documents we don’t accept (unreliable travel documents)
The following documents are considered unreliable and are not valid for travel to Canada:

any passport issued by Somalia
non-machine readable passports issued by the Czech Republic
temporary passports issued by the Republic of South Africa
provisional passports issued by Venezuela

Some people are not allowed to enter Canada
Some people are inadmissible to Canada, which means they are not allowed to enter the country. You can be inadmissible for several reasons, including being involved in:

criminal activity
human rights violations
organized crime
You can also be inadmissible for security, health or financial reasons. Find out more about inadmissibility.

Minor children travelling to Canada
Make sure you know what to do if your minor children (children under the age of 18) will be travelling with you, with someone else, or alone.

Visitor visa

How to apply
The Canada Post labour disruption will cause delays in mail delivery

We’re still processing applications normally. However, there will be delays in

sending applications mailed within or to Canada
getting mail from us
We encourage you to apply online if possible. If you need to apply on paper, use another courier to send us your application.

Venezuelan passport holders

You may need to complete extra steps when you fill out your application.

Prepare documents and apply
The reason you’re traveling to Canada determines the way you apply and the documents you need to submit with your visa application.

Why are you applying for a visitor visa? (required)
To visit as a tourist
To visit for business
To visit your spouse or partner who has sponsored you for permanent residence
For a family visit
For compassionate reasons
To join a vessel as a marine crew member (known as a “seafarer”)
None of the above

On this page
Your fingerprints and photo (biometrics)
Processing your visitor visa application
Check your application status
If we approve your application
If we refuse your application
Your fingerprints and photo (biometrics)
Book your biometrics collection appointment as soon as you can to avoid processing delays.

Find out how to give biometrics

Processing your visitor visa application
We’ll check your application to make sure you have all the documents you need.

If it's incomplete, your application may be refused.

We may also ask you to

go to an interview with our officials in your country
send more information
get a medical exam
get a police certificate
We’ll tell you what to do if you need to do any of these.

We process most applications in a few weeks or less. Processing times depend on the visa office and if you need to do any extra steps (listed above).

Check your application status
The way to check your application status depends on how you applied. Find out how to check your application status.

If we approve your application
If you applied online
You’ll get 2 letters in your IRCC account:

a letter with instructions to submit your passport
our decision letter
This approval doesn’t mean you can travel to Canada. You need to wait until we put the visa in the passport you submit to us.
If you applied on paper
When your application is approved, any original documents, including your passport with the visa inside, will be returned to you.
If we refuse your application
If you applied online
You’ll get our decision in your IRCC account. This will explain why we refused your application.
If you applied on paper
An explanation of why your application was refused will be sent to you, along with any original documents, including your passport.

Work permit

Who can apply
Eligibility requirements for all applicants
There are specific requirements you need to meet depending on where you are when you apply for your work permit.

But regardless of where you apply or which type of work permit you apply for, you must

prove to an officer that you will leave Canada when your work permit expires;
show that you have enough money to take care of yourself and your family members during your stay in Canada and to return home;
obey the law and have no record of criminal activity (we may ask you to give us a police clearance certificate);
not be a danger to Canada’s security;
be in good health and have a medical exam, if needed;
not plan to work for an employer listed with the status “ineligible” on the list of employers who failed to comply with the conditions;
not plan to work for an employer who, on a regular basis, offers striptease, erotic dance, escort services or erotic massages; and
give the officer any other documents they ask for to prove you can enter the country.
Eligibility requirements if you apply from outside Canada
Anyone can apply before they enter Canada. However, there may be visa office requirements that you need to meet depending on what country or territory you’re applying from. Make sure you follow the instructions for how to apply.

Find out if you can benefit from the Global Skills Strategy’s two-week application processing.

Eligibility requirements if you apply from inside Canada
You can only apply for a work permit from inside Canada if

you have a valid study or work permit
your spouse or common-law partner, or parents have a valid study or work permit
you’re eligible for a post-graduation work permit and your study permit is still valid
you have a temporary resident permit that is valid for 6 months or more
you’re waiting on a decision on an application for certain permanent residence classes from inside Canada
you made a claim for refugee protection
you’ve been recognized as a Convention refugee or protected person by the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada
you’re allowed to work in Canada without a work permit , but you need a work permit to work in a different job (this does not apply to business visitors), or
you’re a trader, investor, intra-company transferee or professional under the Canada – United States – Mexico Agreement (CUSMA)
Visitors to Canada are not eligible to apply for a work permit from inside Canada.

Eligibility requirements if you apply when you enter Canada at a port of entry
You should apply for your work permit before you travel to Canada.

However, you can apply for a work permit when you enter Canada if you’re eligible.

To apply at a port of entry (POE), you must meet all of the following:

be from a visa-exempt country or be a visa-exempt traveller (for example, a lawful permanent resident of the U.S.)
be eligible for an electronic travel authorization or to travel without a visitor visa
meet other requirements depending on the type of work permit you’re applying for (see below)
You cannot apply at a POE if you

need a visitor visa
are a citizen of one of the countries on this list
are an International Experience Canada applicant who is not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States
are applying under the Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program
are applying for a post-graduation work permit
As of June 21, 2024, you can no longer apply for a PGWP at a port of entry (airport, land or marine border) when entering Canada.
are in Canada and travel to the United States or Saint Pierre and Miquelon for the purpose of accessing immigration services on your return New
Employer-specific work permit applicants
Your employer must have completed all of the required steps for your employer-specific work permit.

Open work permit applicants
You must be eligible to apply for an open work permit.

You may also need to take a medical exam before you come to Canada. Find out if you need one.

Biometrics
Most applicants aren’t eligible to give their biometrics at a POE.

To give your biometrics at a POE, you must meet 2 requirements:

start and finish your application at the same POE
be eligible to apply for a work permit at a POE
Eligible applicants can give their biometrics at these POE locations.
Work permit

How to apply
In Canada work permit applicants: new rules about applying at a port of entry

Most foreign nationals already in Canada can no longer apply for a work permit at a port of entry. You must apply online for

your initial work permit
your work permit extension
If you’re outside of Canada, you may still be eligible to apply for a work permit when you arrive at a port of entry.

If you’re in Canada and leave as a worker on maintained status, you’ll lose your ability to work when you return. This means you can’t work until your application is approved.

How to apply
You need to apply online for a work permit. Answer a few questions to find out how to apply.
Work permit

After you apply
The Canada Post labour disruption will cause delays in mail delivery

We’re still processing applications normally. However, there will be delays in

sending applications mailed within or to Canada
getting mail from us
We encourage you to apply online if possible. If you need to apply on paper, use another courier to send us your application.

On this page
If you’re outside Canada
If you’re in Canada
If you’re outside Canada
Your fingerprints and photo (biometrics)

Book your biometrics collection appointment as soon as you can to avoid processing delays. Find out how to give biometrics.

Processing time
Varies by country

How we process your application
We’ll check your application to make sure you have all the necessary documents, including biometrics.

If it’s incomplete, we’ll return your application without processing it.

An officer will also check

the list of employers who failed to comply with the conditions to make sure that the employer can hire you, and
that you qualify for a work permit
We may also ask you to

go to an interview with our officials in your country, or
send more information or documents
Our online application system uses coordinated universal time (UTC). If we ask you to upload documents in your account, you must submit them before midnight UTC on the date the officer gives you. Make sure you know the difference between your local time and UTC.

You might need a medical exam to enter Canada. If you do, an officer will tell you and will send you instructions on what to do. A medical exam can add over 3 months to the time it takes us to process your application.

There’s a new way to check your application status
Use the application status tracker(opens in a new tab)  to get updates about your application. To create an account you need your

unique client identifier (UCI)
application number
If your work permit application is approved
You’ll get an approval letter that says you’re allowed to work in Canada. This letter is called the port of entry letter of introduction.

You should bring this letter with you when you travel to Canada and present it at the port of entry. This letter is not your work permit.

You’ll only get your work permit at the port of entry the day you arrive in Canada.

The work permit will outline

the type of work you can do
the employer you can work for
where you can work
how long you can work
If you’re in Canada
How we process your application
We’ll check your application to make sure you have provided all the necessary documents, including biometrics if required.

If it’s incomplete, we’ll return your application without processing it.

An officer will also check

the list of employers who failed to comply with the conditions to make sure that the employer can hire you, and
that you qualify for a work permit
Depending on the type of work you’ll be doing, you might need a medical exam. If you do, an officer will tell you and will send you instructions on what to do. A medical exam can add over 3 months to the time it takes us to process your application.

We may also ask you to send more information.
Work permit

Prepare for arrival
There are a few things you should know before you arrive in Canada to work.

If you’re an International Experience Canada participant, there are special instructions for you.

On this page
Prepare your documents
When you arrive in Canada
Medical and health insurance, and workers’ compensation in Canada
Prepare your documents
When you arrive in Canada, you must have

your passport
your visitor visa (if you need one)
any travel document(s) you’re carrying
You may also need to show proof that your work permit application was approved. One way to do this is to show the border services officer your port of entry letter of introduction. You’ll get this letter if you

applied online or
gave us an email address in the work permit application form for communicating with you 
You can print this letter or bring an electronic version with you.

You should also bring supporting documents, such as

proof that you meet the requirements of the job, such as proof of work experience and education
a copy of your employer’s positive labour market impact assessment (LMIA), if required
You’ll also need a copy of your attestation of issuance of your Quebec Acceptance Certificate (CAQ), if your employer needed an LMIA and you’ll work in Quebec.
the offer of employment number your employer received when they submitted the offer of employment through the Employer Portal (if you are LMIA exempt and coming to work for a specific employer)
When you arrive in Canada
We check your identity
We check your identity to make sure that you’re the same person who was approved to travel to Canada.

If you enter Canada at certain Canadian airports
your fingerprints will be checked automatically at a primary inspection kiosk
the system will check your identity against the information collected when your application was submitted
If you enter Canada at smaller airports and all land ports of entry
your fingerprints may be checked if we refer you to a secondary inspection, where a border services officer will use a fingerprint verification device to check your fingerprints
You talk to the border services officer
Tell the border services officer that you have come here to work and show the documents you brought with you.

You won’t be allowed into Canada if you give false or incomplete information.

You must also

convince the officer that
you meet Canada’s entry requirements
you’ll leave Canada at the end of your approved stay
have valid immigration medical exam results (if you needed an exam)
Your results must be valid the day you enter Canada.
You need to get another medical exam if your results will expire before you enter Canada. 
The officer makes the final decision to issue you a work permit and allow you to enter Canada.

We print your work permit
Once the border services officer has checked your documents and confirms that you can enter Canada, the officer will print the actual work permit for you. If you have questions, or there’s a mistake on your work permit, ask the officer before you leave.

Your passport must be valid for longer than the time you plan to be in Canada. Your work permit won’t be valid beyond your passport’s expiry date. This does not apply to citizens of the United States who show a valid United States passport to the border services officer.

Medical and health insurance, and workers’ compensation in Canada
The eligibility rules for public health insurance vary by province and territory. Make sure that you and any dependants coming with you to Canada either have enough

health care insurance
money in case you need medical attention
You can find more information from the ministry of health of the province or territory where you plan to work.

Alberta: Health care coverage for temporary residents
British Columbia: Eligibility for the Medical Services Plan
Manitoba: Health care coverage
New Brunswick: Apply for a Medicare card
Newfoundland and Labrador: Medical Care Plan eligibility
Northwest Territories: NWT Health Care Plan
Nova Scotia: Medical Service Insurance eligibility
Nunavut: Health care plan
Ontario: Temporary foreign workers and the Ontario Health Insurance Plan
Prince Edward Island: Apply for PEI Health Card – new residents
Quebec: Health insurance card
Saskatchewan: Eligibility for Health Benefits
Yukon: Apply for a health care card
Your employer should make sure you’re covered by workers’ compensation, when you arrive in Canada.
Work permit

When you start working
On this page
Understand the conditions of your permit
Get a social insurance number
Understand your rights as a foreign worker
Labour standards in Canada
Understand the conditions on your permit
Read your work permit carefully. It sets out all the conditions for working in Canada. If you don’t meet those conditions, you could be asked to leave Canada.

You can also apply to change the conditions of your work permit or apply to extend the permit.

If you choose to study while you work
You may be eligible to study without a study permit while you work.

To be eligible, you must

be authorized to work in Canada with either
a valid work permit that you applied for on or before June 7, 2023, or
a letter authorizing you to work while we process your work permit extension application that was submitted on or before June 7, 2023
satisfy the terms and conditions of your work permit—except any conditions related to studying
Find out if you’re eligible for this measure.

Get a social insurance number
The social insurance number (SIN) is a 9-digit number that you'll need to

work in Canada
access government programs and benefits
Apply for a SIN as soon as possible after you arrive in Canada.

How to get a SIN
You should apply online to either

submit a SIN application for the first time, or
update your existing SIN
You can update the expiry date listed on your SIN or update your status in Canada.
You can also apply in person at a Service Canada Centre or by mail, but it may take longer than applying online.

Understand your rights as a foreign worker
Get to know your rights
Learn about your rights under the

International Mobility Program (if you’re exempt from a labour market impact assessment)
Temporary Foreign Worker Program (if you need a labour market impact assessment)
Canada’s labour laws
As a temporary foreign worker, you are protected by Canada’s labour laws.

Your employer

must pay you for your work
must make sure that your workplace is safe
can’t take your passport or work permit away from you
Each province and territory has an employment or labour standards office that deals with labour and employment laws. They can talk to you about fair pay, hours of work, rest periods and working conditions, and provide other services as well.

You don’t need your employer’s permission to contact these offices or go to their websites. You also can’t be punished or deported for contacting them.

Most occupations are covered under provincial and territorial laws. However, federal labour and employment laws may apply if you work for

the federal government
a bank
a company that transports goods between provinces
a telecommunications company
most businesses owned and run by the federal government
Employment agreements
If you have an employer-specific work permit, your employer must give you an employment agreement. You and your employer must sign the agreement, which should include

the details of your job
the conditions of your employment
the highest number of hours you will work in a week
how much you will be paid for your work
The laws on hours of work and overtime (extra time or time worked after regular hours) depend on the province or territory you are working in.

Your agreement may also have details about any money coming out of your pay for programs like the Canada Pension Plan and Employment Insurance.

Always keep a copy of your agreement for your records. You and your employer must always follow the agreement. If you disagree about work details in the future, having a copy may help you.

Contact your local employment or labour standards office to learn more about employment contracts.

If you lose your job
In most cases, your employer needs to give you written notice before your last day of work or pay you for that time instead. This is called termination pay.

Your employer does not have to warn you when you are being let go for a “just cause.” For example, you can be let go for serious misconduct or missing work without a good reason.

If you have a contract for a specific period or a specific job, your employer does not have to give you notice when your contract ends.

The rules about notice of termination are also set by each province and territory.

If your employer does not follow the law when they dismiss you, you can complain to the local employment or labour standards office. If you are covered by a union contract, you may have to make a formal complaint through the union instead.

Housing
Your employer does not have to give you a place to live unless you are a temporary farm worker in the Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program.

If you are given room and board, your employer may take part of the cost from your pay. In most provinces, the amount they can charge for meals and board is limited. All pay deductions must be noted in your contract.

Health and safety
All workers in Canada have the right to a safe and healthy workplace. There are laws to protect workers from danger.

Provincial, territorial and federal governments each have their own laws and ways of looking into health and safety matters.

Is your work safe?
To help you decide if your workplace is safe, ask yourself:

Have I been properly trained for the job I am doing?
Have I been given the right safety equipment to do the job?
Do I feel unsafe when doing my job?
Do I work close to dangerous materials?
To report an unsafe workplace, contact your local employment or labour standards office.

Refusing dangerous work
Your employer cannot force you to do work that’s dangerous. Your employer must look into any danger that’s reported in the workplace. You have the right to refuse to do the work until

you and your employer agree that the danger is removed
you feel the problem no longer exists
a government official tells you that it is safe to do the work
If you get sick or hurt at work
Tell your supervisor as soon as possible and get medical attention. Your employer must give you access to a health care provider (like a doctor, nurse or pharmacist) by, for example

giving you time off to seek medical attention
making a phone available to call emergency services (ambulance)
giving you information on how to get health care
helping you get to the health care provider
You can speak privately with a health care provider, without your employer.

Most provinces and territories provide workers’ compensation benefits. Workers’ compensation plans give you help (medical or wage benefits) if you are hurt on the job or if your job causes you to get sick. Your employer is not allowed to take any money from your pay for these plans.

In some provinces and territories, employers don’t need to offer you workers’ compensation benefits. If so, this must be clearly written in your employment contract.

Contact your local employment or labour standards office to learn more about workers’ compensation benefits.

Farm workers’ rights
Some farm workers in Canada have special rights under the Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program.

Report abuse
If you suspect that your employer has not been respecting your rights as a temporary foreign worker or has been misusing the program, report it to us.

If you think you’re being abused or at risk of being abused, you may be able to apply for an open work permit for vulnerable workers to help you leave an abusive work situation.

Employment standards in Canada
Contact the employment standards branch in the province or territory where you work unless you work for a federally regulated businesses or industry. In that case, you should contact the Federal Labour Program.

Federal Labour Program
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon