What is a Schengen visa?
A Schengen visa is an entry permit for non-EU nationals to make a short, temporary visit of up to 90 days in any 180-day period to a country in the Schengen area. 

Schengen visas come in 3 forms: 

single-entry visa - allowing you to enter the Schengen area once;
multiple-entry visa - allowing several visits to the Schengen area for as long as the visa is valid;
airport transit visa - allows you to connect through the international transit area of an airport in the Schengen area during a stopover or a change of flights. It does not allow you to leave the international transit area.

How long can you stay?
The short-stay calculator can help you calculate the remaining period you are allowed to stay in a Schengen country.

Who needs to apply for a Schengen visa?
Citizens of certain non-EU countries must hold a short-stay visa when travelling to the Schengen area. 

Consult the EU list of countries whose citizens are required to hold a visa when crossing its external borders. There are exceptions to the visa requirements for certain types of traveller to certain countries (e.g. diplomats, armed forces, refugees, pupils on school excursions).

Airport transit visas

Some non-EU nationals must also hold an airport transit visa when connecting through the international transit areas of airports located in any of the Schengen States. 
For citizens of certain additional countries, an airport transit visa is required when connecting through the international transit areas of airports located in some of the Schengen countries. 
There are some categories of people who are exempt from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa (see Article 3(5) of the Visa Code).
Where to apply
You must lodge your application for a Schengen visa at the consulate of the country you intend to visit. 

Visiting more than 1 Schengen countries: apply at the consulate of the country where you will spend the longest time.
Visiting several Schengen countries (for stays of equal length): apply at the consulate of the first country you will visit.
As a general rule, you must apply for a Schengen visa at the consulate with territorial responsibility for the country where you are legally resident.

When to apply
You must submit your application to the consulate at least 15 days before your intended journey and no earlier than 6 months beforehand. 

You may have to book an appointment before lodging the application.

What documents are needed to apply?
A valid passport. The passport’s expiry date should be at least 3 months after the date of your departure from the Schengen area. For multiple-entry visas, the expiry date should be at least 3 months after your departure from the last country visited.
A visa application form.

A photo in compliance with ICAO standards.
Medical insurance covering emergency medical care, hospitalisation and repatriation (including in the event of death).
Supporting documents relating to the purpose of your stay, evidence of financial means and accommodation during your stay, and evidence of your intention to return to your home country after your stay.
Your fingerprints will be collected when you submit your application (exemptions exist for specific categories of applicants).
Additional documents may also be requested by the consulates.

How much does a visa cost?

€90 for adults
€45 for children aged 6-12
€35 for applicants from Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Belarus
€67,50 for applicants from Cabo Verde.
An additional fee may apply if you go through visa service centres, which collect applications on behalf of consulates in some cases.

The visa fee can be waived for specific categories of applicants.

How long does the application take to process?
The normal processing time for a visa application is 15 days. 

This period may be extended to up to 45 days if a more detailed examination of the application and/or additional documents are required.

Under certain conditions, family members of EU or EEA citizens falling under the Free Movement Directive are eligible for a free and accelerated visa procedure.

Refusal of a visa application
If your application is rejected, you will be told:

why it was rejected
how to submit an appeal.

Short-stay visas for the Schengen (Types A and C)
So, again, the Schengen visa allows non-EU nationals to travel freely within the Schengen Area — covering most European countries — for short stays.

It is also commonly referred to as the Uniform Schengen Visa (aka USV) — and generally applies to stays of up to 90 days within any 180-day period.
The Uniform Schengen Visa includes the Type A visa (aka “Airport Transit” visa, or ATV) and the Type C (aka “short-stay” or “tourist”) visa.

NOTE: If you want to stay in the Schengen longer than 90 days, you’ll need to opt for a Type D (aka “long-stay” or national) visa from a specific Schengen country — but more on that below!.

In short, Type A is for travelers transiting through Schengen airports and Type C is for short visits (of up to 90 days) to the Schengen — such as for tourism or business (while for activities longer than 90 days — such as work, school, or residency — you’ll need Type D).

So, first, here’s a more detailed breakdown of the first two:
Schengen visa: Type A
The Type A Schengen visa (aka Airport Transit Visa or ATV) applies to many travelers transiting through the international zone of a Schengen airport — on their way to a non-Schengen destination, that is — without entering the Schengen Area.

In other words, an ATV is mandatory for millions of travelers who are changing flights in Schengen countries — even if they do not leave the international transit area of the airport. Because — according to the European Commission — this helps both ensure security and effectively manage immigration at Schengen airports.
Citizens of which countries need a Schengen Airport Transit visa
As of late 2024, citizens of the following 12 countries* are required to apply for Type A Schengen Airport Transit visa if they’re changing flights within the Schengen Zone:

Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Congo (DR)
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Ghana
Iran
Iraq
Nigeria
Pakistan
Somalia
Sri Lanka
*IMPORTANT NOTES:

-However, under certain conditions, some nationals of the countries listed above are exempt from a Type A visa. And to learn more, you should consult the European Union Visa Code (Article 3 – Paragraph 5).

-Meanwhile, some Schengen countries require citizens from certain countries not listed above to obtain a Transit Visa (VTA) when passing through the international transit area of airports located in their territory. And to find out if these conditions apply to you, we recommend checking directly with the authorities of the Schengen countries you will be transiting through.

- Moreover, if you have to leave the airport of a Schengen country for a connection at another airport (or train/bus station, etc.) and/or have a layover outside the international zone of the airport — you must apply for a Type C visa if your nationality requires one (even if it's for a short period of time)
Schengen visa: Type C
Now, the Type C (aka “short-stay” aka “tourist”) Schengen Visa is the most common type of visa for Europe the world over. And understandably so. Because the Type C Schengen visa ultimately allows travelers in its possession to visit and stay in one or all of the Schengen countries for up to 90 days in any 180-day period.

As such, it’s used for anything from brief European getaways to multi-country backpacking adventures and road trips to short business trips and visiting friends and relatives in the Schengen Zone.

Meanwhile, the Type C Schengen Visa is also sometimes divided into two key subcategories*, which are:

-Visa with Limited Territorial Validity (aka LTV), which restricts travel to specific Schengen countries — meaning the holder cannot move freely across the entire Schengen zone— and is usually granted for humanitarian reasons or in urgent cases.
-Visa Issued at the External Border, which is issued directly at border crossings for unforeseen, urgent reasons, typically valid for a very short stay, and applies only to the country issuing it.

*Neither of the above visas is very common at all. The former (LTV) is issued mainly in exceptional cases (like urgent humanitarian situations) or for those whose travel documents are not accepted by all Schengen countries. Whereas the latter (“external border”) — which is even rarer — is typically issued during emergencies (like unexpected medical needs) and is generally restricted to one or two countries within the Schengen zone.

And, finally, depending on your particular travel needs, the Type C Schengen visa can also be issued as single, double, or multiple-entry

Long-stay visa for the Schengen (Type D)
Meanwhile, if you’re planning to stay in a particular Schengen country for more than 90 days, you’ll have to opt for what’s known as the Type D (aka “long stay”, aka “national”) visa.

And this part is a bit tricky. Namely because — while issued by a Schengen country — a long-stay national visa (Type D) is not technically considered “a Schengen visa” in the traditional sense.

Instead, the Type D visa is issued by a single Schengen member state to individuals intending to stay longer than 90 days in that particular country — for purposes such as work, training programs, internships, school, family reunification, and so on.
However, while the visa primarily grants access to one particular Schengen country, it does also allow its holder to travel freely within the Schengen Area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period during their visa's validity — thus making it similar to the Type C visa. So while a Type D visa is not a "Schengen visa" per se, it does allow movement within the Schengen Area under certain conditions.
Business, work, and student Schengen Visas
Depending on the nature of your particular trip, your Schengen (and/or national) visa can also come in the form of business, work, or study. These subcategories are fairly self-explanatory and do not generally apply to the Schengen Type A (aka ATV “airport transit”) visa. However, they can be used for both short and long stays in the Schengen (i.e., either the Type C or Type D visas) — depending on your particular trip.

So if you’re not just vacationing in Europe but rather going on business or to work or study, AXA can also gladly tell you all you need to know below:

What is a Schengen business visa (and how do I get one)?
What is a Schengen work visa (and how do I get one)?
How to get a work visa for France
How to get a work visa for Germany
What is a Schengen student visa (and how do I get one)?

Single-Entry, Double-Entry, and Multiple-Entry Schengen Visas
And, finally, you also have three options in terms of how often you want to enter the Schengen Zone for your European trip. And here’s a breakdown of those three Schengen visa types*:

Single-Entry Visa:

Allows you to enter the Schengen Area only once. After you leave, the visa becomes invalid (and that’s even if its validity period hasn't expired).

Marked with a "1" on the visa sticker

PRO-TIP: AXA can tell you all about how to read your Schengen Visa Sticker and Number too.
Double-Entry Visa:
Grants two entries into the Schengen Area — meaning you can leave and re-enter once within the visa's validity period (perfect for a side trip to a Schengen-neighboring country, for example). After the second exit, the visa becomes void.

Marked with a "2" on the visa sticker.
Multiple-Entry Visa:
Allows unlimited entries and exits within the visa's validity period — so long as you respect the 90/180 rule (i.e., that your stay/travels do not exceed 90 days within any 180-day period).

Marked with "MULT" on the visa sticker.

PRO-TIPS: AXA can tell you more about the multiple-entry Schengen visa and Schengen visa first point of entry rules too!

*And keep in mind that while the single-entry, double-entry, and multiple-entry visa rules primarily apply to Type C visas, Type D long-stay visas can also be issued as single-entry or multiple-entry — depending on the specific country’s national regulations and your particular situation.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Remember that Schengen visa regulations in general tend to change often. That’s why it’s best to always double-check with the official sources — such as the European Commission website and those of your home country and your transit/destination Schengen countries — for the latest info before booking that layover or flight.

What documents do I need to apply for a Schengen Visa?
In terms of paperwork, to apply for any of the Schengen visa types above, applicants must generally provide the following:

Your passport (issued within the last 10 years and valid for at least 3 months after your planned date of exit from the Schengen area)
Your residence permit and/or resident card (if applicable)
A duly completed and signed Schengen visa application form (which AXA can also help you with)
Two recent passport-sized photos (AXA can tell you all about the specific Schengen visa photo requirements too);
Schengen Travel Insurance (IMPORTANT NOTE: Travel insurance is not only mandatory but must meet several criteria in order to be accepted with your visa application; fortunately, AXA’s does — but more on that below!)
Your itinerary
Proof of sufficient funds (if applicable)
Proof of the purpose of the trip — such as a letter of invitation (if applicable)
Proof of accommodation (if applicable)
Proof of socio-economic and professional stability (if applicable)
When you apply for a visa for any country in the Schengen Area, passport-style photographs are among the things you must include with your application. You will always be required to submit two photos, alongside other documents and your passport.

What documents are required for a Schengen visa application?

Here’s everything you need to know about getting the right Schengen Visa photos in 2022.

What photos do I need for my Schengen Visa application?
When applying for a short-stay Schengen Visa you must include biometric passport (or e-passport) photographs that meet these requirements:

2 identical photos
Not older than six months
Measuring 35 mm across and 45mm in height.
These must be in color, no black and white.
The head should take up 70-80 per cent of the photo
Have a minimum resolution of 400 dpi
Your photos should be on a lightly colored background - light gray is suggested. It must not be patterned, and you should be looking straight at the camera, with a neutral facial expression.

You must not smile - keep your mouth closed. You should avoid wearing clothing which matches the background.

When you take your Schengen Visa photos, you should completely avoid reflections, shadows, and red eyes - as well ensuring the brightness in your photographs is evenly spread and there are no shadows on your face.

Source: French Ministry of Foreign Affairs 

What does a biometric photo mean?
It simply means the standard photographs, fitting the criteria above that show your face and identifying details clearly. They are used by most countries around the world, including the Schengen Area, on official documents such as visa applications.

How should I look in my Schengen Visa photos?
When you pose for your Schengen Visa photos, you should have your normal haircut and should avoid wearing sunglasses or dark optical glasses.

Posing with a hat, headwear that covers your face, or shadowing your face with headwear, is also prohibited.

There is an exception made for religious headwear, but your face must be clearly visible from the bottom of your chin to your forehead.

Can I wear glasses, sunglasses, or tinted glasses in my Schengen visa photo?
The requirements for glasses are as follows:

eyes fully visible
glasses fully transparent
no distortion due to reflection from the glasses
no shadow
Can I wear hidjab or turban in my Schengen visa photo?
If you keep your head covered because of your religion or belief, then you may keep your head covering on for your photo. The head covering must be plain, in one color only, and must also contrast with the background.

Source: Netherlands Gouvernement

Are there any other Schengen Visa photo specifications I should be aware of?
Your Schengen Visa photos must be printed on high quality paper and printing resolution of at least 400 dpi (dots per inch). It is the only accepted form. It must also reflect your natural skin tone and you should take care not to crease your photograph. Photo booth and professional photographers will use paper that meets these requirements.

Will I need more than two photographs if I need to submit additional documents with my Schengen Visa application?
If you are applying for a visa other than a short-stay Schengen Visa - one that allows you to stay for up to 90 days - you may be asked to submit additional photographs or documents that feature European passport standard photographs. Therefore, it is a good idea to ensure you have some spare pictures.

Are the Schengen Visa photo requirements the same for each country?
The standard passport photograph size and requirements apply to all Schengen Area countries and are uniform.

How can AXA help?
In addition to your photographs, you will need proof you have valid travel and medical insurance for all Schengen Area countries, covering you for the duration of your stay.

AXA’s Basic or Essential insurance offers extended coverage wherever you travel in the Schengen area or in the wider EU region. It also provides the mandatory insurance certificate needed for a Schengen Visa. The countries covered include the Schengen Area + San Marino, Andorra, Monaco and Vatican City and with Europa Travel also all European Union countries (the UK and Ireland included).

Related topics:
What is and how to get a no objection letter?
What is and how to get a Schengen invitation letter?
What do I need to know about renewing a Schengen visa?
How to stay and work in the Schengen area after a student visa ?
Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about Schengen Visa photos
Is a white background okay for a Schengen Visa photo?
It is suggested you avoid a white background on your Schengen Visa photos - with a light gray or similar color the best choice. Patterns are not allowed.

What happens if my photo is rejected?
If your photo does not meet the requirements then you should submit one that does. Failure to do so at an early stage may mean you have to reapply if it is not rectified.

What if I no longer look like my photo?
Even if you have changed appearance - by growing your hair or obtaining glasses - the nature of a biometric photo means you should still be identifiable. Still it is perhaps not a good idea to make drastic changes to your look.

What documents do I need for a Schengen Visa?
In terms of paperwork, applicants must generally provide the following:

Your passport (issued within the last 10 years and valid for at least 3 months after your planned date of exit from the Schengen area)
Your residence permit and/or resident card (if applicable)
A duly completed and signed Schengen visa application form (which AXA can also help you with)
Schengen visa photo requirements too);
Your itinerary
Schengen Travel Insurance (IMPORTANT NOTE: Travel insurance is not only mandatory but must meet several criteria in order to be accepted with your visa application; fortunately, AXA’s does — but more on that below!)
Two recent passport-sized photos (AXA can tell you all about the specific
Proof of sufficient funds (if applicable — and more on that below too)
Proof of the purpose of the trip — such as a letter of invitation (if applicable)
Proof of accommodation (if applicable)
Proof of socio-economic and professional stability (if applicable)
And remember that — depending on the nature of your trip (e.g., tourism, business, family visit, etc.) — some additional documentation may also be required

It’s no secret that international travel has been experiencing a lot of changes in recent years. And although travel to, from, and between Europe’s Schengen countries remains relatively easy, it does come at a certain cost. And — if you need to apply for a Schengen visa — that’s literally speaking. 

That’s because one of the basic requirements for being granted a Schengen visa is that you pay a mandatory standard fee. That fee, meanwhile, has recently undergone a few changes of its own (heads-up — it hasn’t gotten any cheaper). And while AXA is just the messenger here, below is a general breakdown of the new costs and specifics behind them. 

How much is a Schengen visa? 
Is the visa fee the same for all Schengen countries?
Are there any additional costs to consider? 
Are there any circumstances when the Schengen visa fee can be waived? 
How can AXA help? 
Everything else you need to know about the Schengen visa
How much is a Schengen visa?
The main body actually responsible for deciding how much a Schengen visa costs is the European Commission. And every three years or so, it tends to revise (and consequently increase) those costs in what it calls an "amendment to the Visa Code.” The last amendment was in January 2020, and it resulted in an increase from €60 to 80€ for adults and from €35 to €40 for kids 6-12yo. 

In early 2024, the Commission had assessed the need to revise the visa fee amounts again. And this time around — by a total of 12%. 

So as of June 11, 2024, the new standard fees for being granted a Schengen visa are as follows: 

€90 for adults; 
€45 for children between the ages of six and 12. 
The good news? Children under the age of six can still get a Schengen visa for free.

Why have the prices been increased?
Well, there are likely several reasons. But to quote the official sources above, “this calculation is based on the EU-wide inflation rate and salary developments for national civil servants over the past 3 years.” 
Why have the prices been increased?
Well, there are likely several reasons. But to quote the official sources above, “this calculation is based on the EU-wide inflation rate and salary developments for national civil servants over the past 3 years.” 

In other words, the fee hike is an effort to adapt to rising administrative (and other) costs, ensure better resources and conditions for consular and visa-processing service workers, and so on. 

Meanwhile, our guess is that the increase will also likely help cover costs associated with certain planned technological advancements by the EU — mainly designed to help streamline the Schengen visa application process (and border controls in general). For example, programs like ETIAS, EES, and even the EU’s eventual plan to bring the whole Schengen visa application process online — although all still very much in the works — will likely all cost the EU a pretty penny. 

But, again, we’re just the messenger here — and, outside the official sources, your guess is as good as ours. The one thing that is clear? If you’re hoping for a Schengen visa in the near future, you’ll need to shell out an extra standard 5 to 10 bucks (compared to the former standard fee, that is).

Is the visa fee the same for all Schengen countries?
Fortunately, yes. As of mid-2024, the Schengen visa fee remains standardized across all Schengen countries. So while the individual costs of goods and services may vary from country to country quite significantly, Schengen visa applicants pay the same fee regardless of which Schengen country they apply to — be it France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and so on.

Is the visa fee the same for all Schengen visas?
Not necessarily. That is, the standard fee applies to a short-stay (aka Type C or “tourist”) visa. A Type C visa is the most common type of Schengen visa, and it allows you to visit the Schengen — for up to 90 days within a 180-day period — for tourism, business, and/or family visits. 

However, different fees may apply for other types of Schengen visas — such as long-stay visas for work, study, and so on. The reason being that these are generally subject to the specific regulations (and, therefore, fees) of the individual Schengen member state you are applying to. 

On the other hand, there may also be exemptions for certain categories of applicants — i.e., students, researchers, participants in cultural, sporting, or educational events, and so on.​
Why have the prices been increased?
Well, there are likely several reasons. But to quote the official sources above, “this calculation is based on the EU-wide inflation rate and salary developments for national civil servants over the past 3 years.” 

In other words, the fee hike is an effort to adapt to rising administrative (and other) costs, ensure better resources and conditions for consular and visa-processing service workers, and so on. 

Meanwhile, our guess is that the increase will also likely help cover costs associated with certain planned technological advancements by the EU — mainly designed to help streamline the Schengen visa application process (and border controls in general). For example, programs like ETIAS, EES, and even the EU’s eventual plan to bring the whole Schengen visa application process online — although all still very much in the works — will likely all cost the EU a pretty penny. 

But, again, we’re just the messenger here — and, outside the official sources, your guess is as good as ours. The one thing that is clear? If you’re hoping for a Schengen visa in the near future, you’ll need to shell out an extra standard 5 to 10 bucks (compared to the former standard fee, that is).

Is the visa fee the same for all Schengen countries?
Fortunately, yes. As of mid-2024, the Schengen visa fee remains standardized across all Schengen countries. So while the individual costs of goods and services may vary from country to country quite significantly, Schengen visa applicants pay the same fee regardless of which Schengen country they apply to — be it France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and so on.

Is the visa fee the same for all Schengen visas?
Not necessarily. That is, the standard fee applies to a short-stay (aka Type C or “tourist”) visa. A Type C visa is the most common type of Schengen visa, and it allows you to visit the Schengen — for up to 90 days within a 180-day period — for tourism, business, and/or family visits. 

However, different fees may apply for other types of Schengen visas — such as long-stay visas for work, study, and so on. The reason being that these are generally subject to the specific regulations (and, therefore, fees) of the individual Schengen member state you are applying to. 

On the other hand, there may also be exemptions for certain categories of applicants — i.e., students, researchers, participants in cultural, sporting, or educational events, and so on.​
Are there any circumstances when the Schengen visa fee can be waived?
Yes, there are certain circumstances under which the Schengen visa fee can be waived. Applicants that may benefit from fee exemptions include — well, again, kids under six years of age, but also certain school pupils, students, and accompanying teachers on school trips. 

Additionally, researchers traveling for scientific research purposes and representatives of non-profit organizations (aged 25 or less) participating in seminars, conferences, and/or sports, cultural, or educational events may also have their fees waived. 

Further, some countries might offer exemptions based on bilateral agreements​ for civil workers, diplomats, and so on. 

So make sure you do your homework and reach out to the embassy/consulate (and/or visa application center) of your destination country of choice to see how your particular travel reason may benefit you. 

PRO-TIP: The EU also has a bunch of helpful info via its Immigration Portal and Migration and Home Affairs websites.

Are there any additional costs to consider?
And keep in mind that — if you’re not exempt — the actual amount you pay when applying for your Schengen visa will likely vary too. In other words, expect to spend a bit more than just the standard fee above. 

First off, because individual Schengen countries might impose additional administrative fees and service charges through their consulates, embassies, and/or visa application centers​. 

Furthermore, costs for obtaining (and/or translating) certain required documents — such as bank statements, employment letters, and so on — can add to your overall expenses. 

And, finally, if you’re going to apply for a Schengen visa — you’re going to need ​​travel insurance for Europe (which is mandatory and must cover medical expenses up to €30,000).

How can AXA help?
And that’s where AXA comes in. Because while we don’t necessarily have any say as to what the European Commission decides to charge for your visa, we have been providing Schengen visa applicants the world over with affordable, top-quality Schengen travel insurance for years.

And not only do all our plans — Basic (starting at as little as €22/week), Essential, and Annual — meet all the requirements for being granted a Schengen visa. 
They also offer: 

Up to €100,000 coverage in medical expenses; 
Medical repatriation & transport; 
Remote medical consultation — 24 hours a day, wherever you are (known as “Doctor, Please!”); 
Up to 180 days of coverage; 
No age restrictions. 
Coverage in all Schengen and most European Union countries, including the U.K. (depending on the chosen plan, that is). 
Not to mention peace of mind, security, and one less big thing to worry about during your trip. Moreover, unlike the Schengen visa, our plans can be purchased online in a matter of minutes. And the AXA travel insurance certificate — accepted by all Schengen embassies, consulates, and visa application centers worldwide — can then be downloaded (and printed) online instantly too. 

So learn more about (and compare) our 3 comprehensive plans and let AXA help bring you one big (and affordable) step closer to being approved for travel to Europe.

Everything else you need to know about the Schengen visa
And, finally — as you may have noticed from all of the above — we know a thing or two about Schengen visas themselves too (aside from the cost increases,of course). And while we can’t necessarily give you one — or make it any cheaper, unfortunately — we’re more than happy to help speed things along in your application process! So here’s a bunch of more stuff we’ve compiled to familiarize you with what exactly you’re paying for: 

What is the Schengen visa?
What is a Schengen business visa and how do I get one? 
What is a Schengen work visa and how do I get one? 
What is a Schengen student visa and how do I get one? 
How long does it take to get a Schengen visa? 
How to fill out a Schengen visa application form 
How to track a Schengen visa application 
How long is the Schengen visa valid (and what happens if I overstay?) 
How to extend a Schengen visa 
How to renew a Schengen visa 
RELATED ARTICLES: 
What are the first port of entry rules for a Schengen visa? 
Which countries are the easiest to obtain a Schengen visa from? 
How to visit or stay with your partner living in the Schengen Area 
How to choose the best Schengen travel insurance 
Which European countries are not in the Schengen? 
Traveling in Europe: 7 Key Changes in 2024 
FAQ
 If I cancel my visa application, will my application fee be refunded? 
No. Unfortunately, your fee will not be refunded once you have submitted your application. 

Will I receive a refund on my travel insurance if I cancel my Schengen Visa application?
 Yes! AXA will refund your insurance fees if your visa application is rejected in most cases. We’ll only ask that you provide official documentation explaining why your visa was refused (from the relevant embassy, consulate, or visa application center). 

Will it cost more to obtain a longer-stay Schengen Visa? 
Generally speaking, there is little difference — as the fee covers the costs of processing your application. However, longer-stay visa applications to work or study are dealt with at a national level — so the requirements may vary, and your destination country may ask you to pay fees covering additional documentation. 

Can I work or study in the Schengen Zone on a tourist visa?
 No. While the tourist (or Type C) allows visitors to enter the Schengen for a short business trip, a holiday, and/or to visit family members, it cannot be converted into a work or study permit. AXA can tell you more. 

What should I do if my visa is refused? 
You can either apply again or appeal. The EU’s Article 32(3) of the Visa Code of the Schengen Agreement can tell you more — but the outcome of your appeal will ultimately depend on the individual Schengen country’s authorities.

How to apply for a Schengen business visa to Europe?
Travel Insurance is mandatory to obtain a Schengen visa

Written by: Kurt Hambadda
Published on: 07/18/2025

According to the International Air Transport Association (aka IATA), roughly 600 million business trips are taken globally each year. And a good chunk of these, of course, happens to be to, from, and throughout the most visited continent on the planet – aka Europe.

If you too are planning to be among the thousands of people saying “business” at a European airport on any given day, you might be wondering about the right type of visa for your trip. And that’s why AXA has all you need to know about the Schengen business visa below.

What is a Schengen Business Visa?
Who needs a Schengen Business visa?
What are the main requirements for a Business Schengen Visa application?
Where and when should I apply for a Business Schengen Visa?
Tips to complete the application process for a Business Schengen Visa
Why choose AXA Travel Insurance for my Business Schengen Visa?
Schengen Business Visa FAQ
What Is a Schengen Business Visa?
As its name suggests, a Schengen Business Visa is essentially a type of short-stay (aka Type C) Schengen visa ​–​this one designed specifically for non EU/EEA nationals traveling to the Schengen Area for business-related activities. Think meetings, conferences, contract negotiations, industry events, and so on (IMPORTANT: However, don’t think full-time employment–but more on that in our FAQs section below).

Being granted a Schengen Business Visa (or a Business Schengen visa, if you prefer as they’re interchangeable) allows you to enter not just one but any of Europe’s dozens of Schengen countries. And, once there, it also offers you the freedom to cross any of their borders, and without needing any other separate visas.
That is, so long as your trip doesn’t exceed 90 days within any 180-day period.

PRO-BUSINESS TIP: Don’t worry, AXA can gladly help you wrap your head around the 90/180 Schengen visa rule too.

Do I need a Schengen Business visa?
That depends. Generally speaking, if you’re one of the 5-6 billion nationals of over 100 countries worldwide that don't have a visa-free agreement with the Schengen Area, you’ll need a Schengen visa to enter most of Europe–be it for business or anything else.

And if you’re trying to enter Europe for professional reasons (i.e., to buy, sell, attend meetings and/or conferences, sign contracts, network at trade shows, and so on), the visa you apply for is going to have to be… You guessed it: a business Schengen visa.

Also keep in mind that if you only plan to stay in Europe for a few days, a visa is still most likely required. And the same goes for even if your company (or employer, client, etc.) is footing the bill for your trip. But but more on that below!

PRO-BUSINESS TIPS: And fear not! AXA can help you figure out who needs a Schengen visa and who doesn’t need a Schengen visa in no time too.

IMPORTANT PRO-TIP: Meanwhile, if you're from a country whose citizens don’t need a Schengen visa (i.e., Canada, the U.K., the U.S., and roughly 60 more), you typically should be ok for short business trips under 90 days. However, you’ll still likely need at least some paperwork attesting to the trip’s “business” nature.

In other words, whether you need that visa or not, it’s still always best to check with the authorities (i.e., consulates and/or embassies) of the specific Schengen state you plan to visit beforehand.

What Are the Main Requirements for a Business Schengen Visa Application?
Along with meeting the general requirements for a Schengen visa, you must also prove that your trip is for genuine business activities (i.e., attending meetings, conferences, trade shows, and so on).

And depending on your particular situation–as well as the specific Schengen authorities–this proof can be in the form of an invitation and/or sponsorship letter (see below!), a conference registration, a meeting agenda, a contract or other official business-related documents, and the like.

Which documents do I need to provide for a Business Schengen Visa?
You’ll also, at the very least, likely need the following:

Completed and signed Schengen visa application form
Two passport-sized photos (matching Schengen visa photo requirements)
Proof of Schengen travel medical insurance (PRO-BUSINESS TIP: Proper travel insurance is mandatory to be granted a Schengen visa and all of AXA’s plans are proper indeed!)
Your flight itinerary
​​Proof of accommodation (if applicable)
Proof of means of subsistence (if applicable)
What documents do I need from my company or business partner for the application?
Your company or business partner must indeed provide at least some official documentation to support your application. However, specifically what that documentation is can be as varied as there are ways of doing business!

Usually, though, this will include a formal invitation letter outlining the purpose and length of your visit, evidence of the ongoing business relationship, a bank statement or two, proof of who (and how) is footing the bill, and so on.

PRO-BUSINESS TIPS: Luckily, AXA can also gladly guide you, step by step, through the processes of getting both an invitation letter and a letter of sponsorship for your Schengen visa (be it business or other), respectively.

Where and When Should I Apply for a Business Schengen Visa?
In terms of where and when, the Schengen business visa application process is pretty universal.
Apply at the embassy, consulate, or visa application center of the Schengen country you plan to do business in, the one where you will spend the most time, or–if your stay is equally split between countries– at the embassy of the Schengen country you plan to enter first.

Time-wise, all Schengen visa applications –be it business or any other type– should be submitted no earlier than six months and no later than 15 days before your trip.

But, again, it’s best to check the specific Schengen embassy/consulate’s official websites for any local appointment or documentation requirements (and you can see our FINAL PRO-TIP below for more on those).

How much does a Business Schengen Visa cost?
​​​​And the same goes for the costs. That is, although some additional fees may vary from country to country if you’re applying through a visa center, what you pay for the Schengen visa itself remains universal no matter where you’re going (or what type of visa you’re applying for).
take a look at AXA’s comprehensive Schengen visa costs guide.

What is the difference between a Business Visa and a Work Visa?
Great question. In a nutshell, a Business Visa allows short stays for activities like meetings or conferences, while a Work Visa permits actual employment within the Schengen Area.

PRO-BUSINESS TIP: But to better answer it, AXA has all you need to know about a Schengen work visa too.

How long is a Business Schengen Visa valid?
Traditionally, it’s valid for up to 90 days within any 180-day period (see our piece on this rule above).

PRO-BUSINESS TIP: Oh, and we’ve also got all you need to know about both Schengen visa validity (and Schengen visa extension) just in case too.

How many entries does a Business Schengen Visa allow?
That depends on what type of visa you request (and what the Schengen authorities grant, of course). For example, you can get a single-entry, double-entry, or multiple-entry visa. And all three are fairly self-explanatory.

A single-entry is more common for first-time business travelers, while the double-entry and multiple-entry Schengen visa is usually approved for frequent flyers (and/or those who’ve previously held Schengen visas). But regardless of entries, you’re still bound by the aforementioned 90/180-day rule.

PRO-BUSINESS TIP: AXA can familiarize you with all the different types of Schengen visas in no time as well.

Is travel insurance mandatory for a Business Schengen Visa application?
Yes, to be granted your visa, you must have a Schengen travel insurance plan when you apply. And said plan, in turn, should:

be purchased from an insurance company validated by the consular authorities of all Schengen countries;
have a minimum coverage of €30,000 (in case of medical care, hospitalization, and/or medical repatriation);
be accepted by all countries within the Schengen zone;
be valid for the entire duration of your trip.
And it goes without saying that all of AXA’s plans meet the criteria above.

How long does it take to get a Business Schengen Visa?
Processing typically takes 15 calendar days but can be longer during peak seasons (and/or depending on your particular situation).

What are the most common reasons for Business Schengen Visa refusal?
Your Schengen business visa might be refused due to one (or more) of the following:

Incomplete or incorrect application
Insufficient proof of business purpose
Previous visa violations or overstays
Doubts (from the Schengen authorities) about your financial means, return intentions, and so on
Lack of valid travel insurance (hint hint)
What should I do if my Business Schengen Visa application is rejected?
In the off-chance that your Schengen visa is refused, you can either appeal the decision or reapply with corrected documentation. In any case, consult your destination Schengen embassy’s website (and/or representatives) for further guidance.

BONUS PRO-BUSINESS TIP: And remember that not only is AXA rooting for you but we can also help you cover all the possible bases to avoid having your business Schengen visa rejected in the first place!

Tips to complete the application process for a Business Schengen Visa
So, to summarize, here’s how you can help guarantee that you can take your Schengen business visa to the bank:

Familiarize yourself and your business partner(s) with your Schengen destination country’s specific rules, requirements, and regulations;
Double-check all documents for accuracy and completeness before submission;
Clearly demonstrate the business purpose (with official invitations, contracts, and so on);
Apply early to allow time for processing (and/or margins for error);
Keep copies of all submitted documents for your records (and, of course, get as much as you can in writing);
Consult with AXA’s comprehensive guide above;
Purchase top-quality travel insurance that meets all Schengen requirements.
FINAL BUSINESS PRO-TIP: Business travel–much like business itself–can be tricky, even if it happens to be to (or within) the largest free movement zone on Earth.

So while AXA continuously strives to bring you all the latest info regarding your particular visa, it’s still always best to double-check all the official specific entry requirements of your destination country before travel.

Fortunately for both you and your business, the European Union’s official website provides links to all Schengen diplomatic missions worldwide to help you do just that!
 

Why choose AXA Travel Insurance for my Business Schengen Visa?
There are, of course, plenty of ways AXA can help secure your Schengen business visa (as well as keep you safe throughout Europe).
For example, AXA’s plans:

Meet all the criteria required for a Schengen visa
Are accepted by all Schengen embassies and consulates worldwide
Are refundable in the event of visa refusal (in most cases)
Can be quickly and easily purchased online
Are an excellent value for their cost
Offer coverage of medical and repatriation costs of up to €2 Million
Offer 24/7 emergency assistance and support
…The list just goes on and on. But for the sake of getting down to business, we’ll let the plans speak for themselves. So make sure to

compare our various plan options
and/or

get your free AXA quote today
(without any obligation, and without providing any personal data).

And see for yourself how saying “business” at your next European airport will feel more and more like a pleasure indeed!

RELATED ARTICLES:

What is a Schengen student visa (and how do I get one)?
How to visit and/or stay with your partner living in the Schengen Area
How to choose the best Schengen travel insurance
FAQ
Can I visit multiple Schengen countries with a business visa?
Yes. A Business Schengen Visa lets you travel freely between any and all Schengen countries during its validity.

Can I extend my business Schengen visa if my trip is prolonged unexpectedly?
Maybe. However, extensions are rare, only usually granted for serious reasons like medical emergencies. And if you do plan to apply for an extension, make sure to do so before your visa expires.

Is it possible to apply for a multiple-entry business Schengen visa?
Yes. You can request a multiple-entry visa if you need to travel in and out of the Schengen Area for business –again, so long as you stay within the visa’s validity period.

AXA already looks after millions of people around the world
With our travel insurance we can take great care of you too

GET A QUOTE
AXA Schengen's Travel Insurances
AXA Schengen Basic
AXA Schengen Basic is perfect to obtain your Schengen visa. This travel insurance meets all the requirements demanded, covers you in all the countries of the Schengen Area as well as 4 European microstates (Andorra, Vatican City, Monaco and San Marino).

Discover AXA Schengen Basic
AXA Schengen Essential
AXA Essential is perfect to obtain your Schengen visa. It provides coverage in the Schengen countries + the European microstates + all the EU countries (including UK, Cyprus, Bulgaria, the Republic of Ireland and Romania). And you get additional guarantees compared to AXA Schengen Basic.

Discover AXA Schengen Essential
AXA Schengen Annual
AXA Annual is perfect to obtain your Schengen visa. This annual travel insurance is ideal for those who often travel to Europe as well as multiple-entry Schengen visa holders. You get the same guarantees as AXA Schengen Annual for different countries during 90 days.

Discover AXA Schengen Annual

What is a Schengen work visa and how do I get one?
I’m planning to work in Europe, do I need a Schengen work visa?
There’s no such thing as a ’Schengen work visa’. You can only work in Schengen nations for long periods if you have a National D-type Work visa, which is issued by the country you are planning to work in - and will not entitle you to work in another state.

However, if you need to travel to the Schengen Area for work reasons and your trip will last fewer than 90 days, then you can apply for a short-stay Schengen work visa allowing you to fulfill your business obligations. You will need to provide evidence that work is the purpose of your trip to be issued with a short-stay visa equivalent to the length of your posting in your desired Schengen Area. You must leave your host country before the expiry date shown on your visa.

If your obligations exceed 90 days, you need a long-stay work visa type D. You may also need to validate it within three months following your arrival.

What different types of Schengen visas exist ?

How do I get a European work permit?
To get a European work visa you need to check the employment visas offered in the country where you wish to work and figure out if you qualify. Meet the criteria, collect the required documents for an employment visa and schedule a visa interview.

What documents do I need to obtain a short-stay Schengen work visa?
If you need to travel to the Schengen Area for work purposes, for example, to represent your company or to meet with investors, suppliers, or potential clients or customers, you need a letter of invitation, specifying your business relationship and what you will be doing during the time you are in the country. It is a good idea for you to attach an itinerary of the business activities to the invitation letter so you can show your work plans.

If you are an employee, you should also include documentation from your employer confirming that you are an employee and details of your work. These should include your job position, dates of employment, salary, and why you must travel for business purposes. It may also be a good idea to get a no objection letter from your employer in your home country.

If self-employed, you will need to provide a copy of your business license, a company bank statement for the last six months, and an income tax return.

From the end of 2023, citizens of countries with a visa-free arrangement for short stays in the Schengen Area will need to apply via the ETIAS system for short business trips. If you plan to work aboard for longer, you will need to apply for a national work visa.

Is a work visa difficult to obtain?
Citizens of the USA, Australia, Canada, China, Japan, India or other non-EU countries must apply for a work visa to work in Europe. Each Schengen member state has its own immigration policies towards citizens of non-member states, tailored to their own needs. This means the ease with which you can obtain a visa will depend on the specific immigration policies of the country you are planning to work in. Your chances of acceptance will also depend on your profession and whether you meet the labor needs of the country concerned. Your future employer may also need to obtain a work permit from the national authorities. Before applying for a work visa you should check that you have a strong chance of matching the visa criteria of the country where you are planning to work.

What documents do I need to apply for a work visa in Europe?
The process varies from country to country, but the standard requirements for an employment visa in Europe are two copies of a completed application form, two identical photos, a valid passport, your travel reservations, travel and medical insurance, proof of accommodation, an employment contract, and your academic or professional qualifications. You may also be asked to prove you can speak the language of your host nation.

When should I apply?
You are strongly advised to apply for a European work visa at least two months before your trip as embassy staff can take six weeks to process an employment visa application. Sometimes the process can be extended to 12 weeks, so it’s good to apply early.

How long will my work visa be valid for?
Most Schengen Area work visas entitle you to work for one year, but most countries allow you to apply for an extension upon their expiration. To do this, you will have to provide the authorities in the country you are working in with required documents, explaining the reason for extending your stay.

How much does it cost to get a Schengen work visa?
Schengen work visa cost varies depending on the country:

France work visa costs €99
The cost of German work permit employment visa is €75
The cost of Spain work visa is $190 for USA citizens, $114 for Canada nationals and $67 for other nationalities
These may be subject to change over time and may be revised due to inflation and other costs or policy changes.
How can AXA help?
With time of the essence, it’s better to apply for a work visa as soon as possible. AXA can help by providing you with travel and medical insurance that meets your EU work visa requirements from as little as €22 per week. You will receive a certificate proving you are insured immediately, meaning you can get on with your visa application.

Related topics on Schengen visa types
What is a short stay Schengen visa ?
What are multiple-entry Schengen visas and how do I get one ?
What is a Schengen business visa and how do I get one ?
What is a Schengen student visa and how do I get one ?
How to visit or stay with your partner living in the Schengen Area ?
Frequently asked questions about Schengen work visas
Can a work visa be extended?
Short-stay Schengen work visas can only be extended in exceptional circumstances but national employment visas can be extended if there has been no change in your employment status.

What is the cost of a Schengen work visa?
The cost of a work visa varies from country to country - so you should check with the relevant authorities. If on a short-stay visa for business - a standard fee of €80 applies.

Which EU country gives citizenship easily?
Portugal is the country in the Schengen Area that most readily provides citizenship to non-nationals. Their program allows for citizenship after only five years.

How do I get a work visa for France?

You are going to work in France, and getting a work visa is part of the preparation for your stay. Here is everything you need to know about how to get a work visa for France, with information about visa types, work authorization, insurance, the documents required for your application, and how to apply.

Which visa should I apply for to work in France?
Your visa should be in line with your work contract, whether it’s long-term or short-term:

You must apply for a short-stay visa if your work trip lasts less (or exactly) 90 days in a 180-day (six months) period in total.
You must apply for a long-stay visa if you stay longer, between three months and one year maximum. This is a Type D or a “national” visa. Your long-stay work visa should be registered within three months after you arrive in France. After one year, you will have to apply for a residence permit (called “titre de séjour”) to stay in France.
Specific cases:

If you are:
Assigned by your employer to a company based in France
Employed by a group of companies based abroad for a mission in France, or attending a training in the French buildings of this group
You will have to apply for a visa according to the duration of your contract with this company in France. If you apply for a long-stay visa, you will be written as a “travailleur temporaire” (temporary worker).

2. If you are:

A trainee
You must apply for a long-stay visa with the mention “Stagiaire ICT”, and register it within three months after you arrive in France.

An executive with a managerial mission or a senior expertise
You apply for a three-year long-stay visa with the mention “salarié détaché ICT”. Within two months of your arrival in France, you will have to ask at the prefecture for a pluriannual residence permit.

For these two last cases, your family (wife, husband, children under 18) can join you. Members of your family are allowed to apply for a residence permit of the same duration as yours. This allows them to work.

If I want to work in France as a seasonal worker, which visa should I apply for?
To work as a seasonal in France, you need a work visa. You will be able to work in France six months out of 12.

You must apply for a long-stay visa with the mention “travailleur saisonnier” (seasonal worker).

If you have several French employers, you will need a work authorization. Then you will have to get a residence permit at the prefecture, within two months of your arrival in France. This is a pluriannual residence permit.

However, your employer will have to grant you a new work authorization each year you work for them.

Which other documents do I need to get a work visa for France?
The following documents are required for a work visa application:

Your visa application form, dated and signed, and the France-Visas receipt
Two recently taken passport photographs
Your passport, delivered less than 10 years ago and with a minimum of two free pages. It has to be valid for at least three months after you leave the Schengen Area. In the case of a long-stay trip, it can be valid for three months after your visa expires.
If your country of residency is different from your citizenship, you have to submit legal proof of residency in this country (residence permit…)
Proof of your visa insurance.
Regarding your professional activity in France, you will have to provide:

A work authorization which your employer will get via DIRECCTE (form Cerfa n°15187*02), sent directly to the embassy or the consulate of your country of residence by Office Français de l’Immigration et de l’Intégration (OFII)
A copy of your degrees, qualifications and work certificate
What is a work authorization?
A work authorization is a document allowing a foreign citizen to work as an employee in France.

To get a work visa, the company willing to hire a foreign citizen has to get a work authorization from DIRECCTE (Direction Régionale des Entreprises, de la Concurrence, de la Consommation, du Travail et de l’Emploi) to allow them to work legally in France. This authorization has to be included in the visa application.

However, your employer does not have to get an authorization if your mission is linked to sport, cultural, artistic or scientific purposes, business tourism (summit or convention), movie and audiovisual production and broadcasting, musical production, visiting professorship or lectureship, or services to the employer during their stay in France (excluding companies).

You have to justify the exemption by proving your mission in France is linked to your mission in your country of origin.

If you are a model, you are also exempt and the agency has to fill in a specific form.

If you work for an individual, they have to provide you with a commitment form (called “Formulaire d’engagement”, the employer commits, by signing this form, to respect the social French policy), dated and signed.

How do I apply for a work visa?
You fill out the form online on France-Visas.
You receive a receipt from France-Visas, proving you sent your form. You have to print it.
You have then to book an appointment to submit your application. Depending on the country you apply from, this appointment will be at the French consulate or at an organization approved by France to collect visa application forms (VFS Global, TLS, Capago).
During this appointment, you will give all the documents to support your application. You pay the fees at that time.
An appointment will be fixed for you to take your passport back.
You can follow the process of your application online.
When should I apply for a French work visa?
Your application has to be sent no more than 6 months before your departure.

How much does a work visa for France cost?
The work visa for France costs €99. You have to pay in the local currency, during your appointment to register your visa application form.

If your visa application is denied, there will be no refund for this amount.

Do I need insurance to apply for a work visa?
If you apply for a short-stay visa, you need medical insurance to cover any medical fees or hospitalization and in case of repatriation or death. AXA offers a range of insurance policies tailored to the needs of people traveling and staying in the Schengen Area.

If you apply for a long-stay visa up to six months, two of these options should cover your needs: Basic Schengen insurance and Essential Insurance.

We do our best to provide the most accurate and up to date information, however, the visa regulations can be changed at any time by the French consulate in your country, depending on the circumstances. Because of that, we cannot take responsibility for these changes. Please contact the consulate to find out the exact regulations at the time you apply for a visa.

How to apply for a work visa in Germany?
Glückwunsch ! You have decided to move to Germany for work purposes. As the world’s fourth-largest economy, Germany is extremely welcoming to qualified non-Germans. Since March 2020, the Skilled immigration Act has enforced new rules for the immigration of non-European skilled workers, offering more opportunities for qualified professionals to work in Germany.
Nonetheless, you will still need to apply for a work visa or permit in order to legally stay and work in your new place of residence. The application process depends on your situation and country of origin.
Let’s find out more

 Who needs to apply for a German work permit?
Depending on your country of origin, the emergency of your work situation and how long you intend on staying in Germany, you will either need to apply for a work visa, a residence permit for qualified employment or nothing at all !

If you are a European national, a citizen of the European Economic Area (Liechtenstein, Iceland, Norway) or from Switzerland, you have the right to work in Germany without any other documentation than your valid id papers. However you will still need to register at the local Civil Registry (Einwohnermeldeamt) when you arrive in the country.
 
If you are an American, Australian, Canadian, Israeli, Japanese, New Zealand or South Korean citizen, you do not need an entry visa to enter Germany for stays under 90 days. However, if you intend to work there, you do need to apply for a work visa, a residence permit for qualified employment or a job seeker visa.
 
Citizens of other countries need a work-and-residence visa before entering the country.
What are the main requirements to obtain a work visa in Germany ?
Your work visa will be issued depending on Germany’s economic and labour needs.
The decision will be based on:

your qualifications: if you have received higher education or qualified vocational training. Foreign university degrees or vocational qualifications must be officially recognised in Germany.
 if you already have a binding job offer from a company in Germany. Your recognised qualifications need to match those required by the position you are going to take, entailing that you could be employed in related positions if the situation demanded it.
the viability of your business plan if you are self-employed.
your financial means
Your language skills will also be taken into account.

What type of German work permit or visa must you apply for? 
For American, Australian, Canadian, Israeli, Japanese, New Zealand or South Korean citizens, there are different possibilities depending on your situation:
If you have already found a job in Germany and urgently need to start upon your arrival, you need to apply for a work visa for qualified employment before leaving your home country as you will only be allowed to start working in Germany once your work permit is issued.
If you want to find a position once you are already in the country, you can enter Germany without a visa. You will then have 90 days to find a binding job offer matching your professional qualifications and apply for a residence permit for qualified employment.
You can also apply for a visa for jobseekers before entering Germany. This visa grants you the right to stay in the country for 6 months in order to find a job.
 
For citizens of other countries, you will need your German work visa for qualified employment before travelling to Germany. A binding job offer and recognised foreign university degrees or vocational qualifications are necessary to hope to obtain one. You can also apply for a visa for jobseekers.
What documents are required with my German work visa application ? 
As you are applying for a German national visa for work purposes, you will need to provide specific work related documents. You will hand them in during a previously booked appointment with your local German embassy, mission or consulate.

Hereinafter a list of the basic mandatory documents needed to obtain a German work visa, it is strongly recommended that you add 2 copies of each original document:

Germany work visa requirements
You can book an appointment for “residence permit” online with the relevant German mission directly. Please apply well in advance but no more than 3 months prior to departure.

Anyone can apply for a German work visa - including those who are self-employed or wish to seek a job when they arrive in the country, but you must already have a job contract or a letter of intent, have strong academic or technical qualifications, or are skilled in a field in which German authorities state there is a shortage of workers. When making your visa application you will need to present:

valid passport – issued within the past 10 years, providing a minimum of 2 blank pages.
two completed German work visa application forms
Declaration of accurancy of information
two passport color photographs,
proof of residence in the country from which you are making your application. Residence permit , e.g. Visa, Green Card
Proof of address, e.g. valid driver’s license, utility bill, lease
Copy of your employment contract or letter of intent from your future employer in Germany, including details about salary and working hours as well as full address of the employer
OR - For self-employment: Copy of all information regarding the company and financing (e.g. location offer, business plan, credit and financial information, business contacts in Germany)
Detailed job description from your future employer
Proof of qualification or university degree, original and copy, AND if applicable:
official translation into German or English. Please note: German law requires the foreign university degree to be fully recognized in Germany for the following employment:
Skilled work/qualified employment for graduates of foreign universities (§ 18 IV German Residence Act) - Blue Card (§ 19a German Residence Act)* -
Jobseeker (§ 18c German Residence Act) If this applies to your case, proof that your foreign university degree is recognized in Germany must be submitted along with your visa application. Please follow the instructions on the ANABIN website in order to print out this confirmation. If your degree certificate does not state your subject, additional documents such as transcripts are required
Proof of housing in Germany incl. full address (e.g. rental agreement, hotel reservation or invitation letter in case of private accommodation with name, full address and passport copy of the inviting person)
Proof of travel health insurance for the first 90 days of your stay with a minimum coverage of 30000€
How much does a German work permit cost ?
The visa fees are 75€ which can be paid in cash, credit card or demand draft depending on where you are applying from. They are not refundable even if your application is denied.

How long does it take to obtain a German work visa ?
Once your application has been registered, the processing time to issue your German work visa can take from1 to 3 months. You should also take into account the delay to obtain an appointment to hand in your application and documents.

How else can AXA help?
The AXA Schengen insurance policy meets the requirements of the European Union for obtaining a Schengen visa. The maximum duration of the insurance contract is limited to 180 consecutive days for Basic Insurance and Essential. You can check our warranties here.

What is a Schengen student visa and how do I get one?
If you are looking to study in Europe for a period of fewer than three months, you should apply for a standard Schengen Visa that will allow you to travel throughout its member states. However, if you want to study for longer, you should apply for a Long-Stay National Student Visa from the embassy of the country you are planning to study in.

What different types of Schengen visas exist ?

What documents will I need to get a Schengen Student Visa?
The mandatory documents required to obtain a Long-Term D-type Student Visa are:

valid passport (issued within the last 10 years and with at least 12 months validity left after the scheduled return)
1 copy of your passport’s data page (A4 size copy)
3 passport pictures according to biometric specifications
cover letter from applicant explaining the exact purpose and duration of stay
letter of admisssion from university
proof of payment of study fees, if applicable
proof of language proficiency in English and/or the language of the host country
proof of other academic qualifications, if applicable
proof of financial means to cover the costs for the time of your studies by one of the following documents:
confirmation of scholarship/ stipend
 “Verpflichtungserklärung” (formal obligation letter) by sponsor living in Germany
travel health insurance covering the period from your departure to the date of enrolment at the university (mentioned in your letter of admission) (approx. 3 months)
Please prepare two identical application sets with the above-mentioned documents and bring your original certificates along.

Countries also have their own student visa criteria that must be met if you want to study there:

For example,  students in Italy must prove they have the financial support of at least €448 per month for the duration of studies. Those studying in Italy must also obtain a residency permit. Getting a visa to study in Germany requires proof you have the funds: an average student needs to live on - €853 per month. You will have to pay a processing fee of €75 via a bank transfer to study in Germany too. You can apply for your visa at your host country’s embassy, consulate, or visa application center and may have to attend an interview.

Is there anything else I need to apply for a Schengen student visa?
If you are a student at an institution in your home country, planning to travel to the Schengen Area to study for a period, you may want to get a no objection letter from officials at your university. This is a short letter stating that they have ‘no objection’ to you traveling as they expect you to return to your studies after your trip. It can help with your visa application as it helps confirm that you will not overstay your Schengen student visa. You should ask someone in a position of responsibility for this.

How much time does it get to obtain a Schengen student visa?
The processing of your application will take six to eight weeks. We advise you to apply well in advance of the proposed beginning of your studies.

Can I work while I study?
Working while in a country on a student visa is against the law without securing an employment visa from your host government. Therefore, you can combine studying with work. For example, in France, the law authorizes foreign students to work 964 hours, which corresponds to 60 percent of normal working hours. However, part-time work will not be sufficient to cover all your expenses and should be considered as a secondary source of income. Violating these rules could seriously jeopardize your studies and future employment prospects, as breaking local immigration laws may result in a travel ban.

Where do I obtain the form to apply for a Student Visa?
A Student Schengen Visa form should be available from the website of the consulate of the country or visa application center you are applying to visit. For example, Indian students who apply for a Student visa in Germany will find the information here: india.diplo.de/in-en/service/-/2288440#content_0

Can I extend a Schengen student visa?
A Schengen student visa can be extended only in some very specific cases, such as late entry, humanitarian reasons, important personal reasons, or some kind of unforeseeable circumstances. You cannot extend your Schengen student visa for the purpose of continuing your studies.

If you do wish to continue your studies beyond the original period planned, you will have to return to your home country or country of residence and apply for a long-stay study visa.

How can AXA help?
With time of the essence, it’s better to apply for a European study visa as soon as possible. AXA can help by providing you a low cost student travel insurance that meets your Europe student visa requirements. Perfect for those on a tight student budget! A certificate proving you are insured will be available immediately, meaning you can get on with your EU student visa application.

What is a short stay Schengen visa ?
What are multiple-entry Schengen visas and how do I get one ?
What is a Schengen business visa and how do I get one ?
What is a Schengen work visa and how do I get one ?
How to visit or stay with your partner living in the Schengen Area ?
Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about applying for a Schengen student visa
Can I bring my family to Europe with a Schengen student visa?
You cannot bring in family members on a Schengen student visa or a family reunion visa. They can apply for their own tourist visa to visit family.

Is there any age limit to apply for a Schengen student visa?
There is no age limit for those applying for a Schengen student visa to attend a training or study course