Visitor visa

Who can apply
On this page
Who can get a visa
Some people are not allowed to enter Canada
Minor children travelling to Canada
Who can get a visa
You must meet some basic requirements to get a visitor visa.

You must:

have a valid travel document, like a passport
be in good health
have no criminal or immigration-related convictions
convince an immigration officer that you have ties—such as a job, home, financial assets or family—that will take you back to your home country
convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit
have enough money for your stay
The amount of money you will need depends on how long you will stay and if you will stay in a hotel, or with friends or relatives.
You may also need a medical exam and letter of invitation from someone who lives in Canada.

Check the list of documents you need based on your situation.
Valid passports and other travel documents needed to come to Canada
When you come to Canada, you must travel with a valid passport or travel document.

Your passport or travel document is considered valid if it’s:

legal
not expired, and
accepted by us (Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada)
How long your passport needs to be valid
Check the expiry date on your passport. Depending on the program you’re applying for, you may want to renew your passport before you submit your application.

Visiting, working and studying temporarily
We can’t issue you a work permit, study permit or visitor record that is valid past the expiry date of your passport.

If you get a new passport after you arrive in Canada, you can apply to extend your stay.

Immigrating through Express Entry
If you’re applying through Express Entry, you should renew your passport if it expires within 6 months from the day you apply for permanent residence. Then, update your new passport information in your application. This will ensure it’s valid when we process your application.

Keep 1 page in your passport free
If you’re from a visa-required country, you need at least 1 free page in your passport or travel document. That’s where we’ll stick your visitor visa or permanent resident visa.

If you have a valid visa in an old passport, you may still be able to use it to travel to Canada.

Documents we don’t accept (unreliable travel documents)
The following documents are considered unreliable and are not valid for travel to Canada:

any passport issued by Somalia
non-machine readable passports issued by the Czech Republic
temporary passports issued by the Republic of South Africa
provisional passports issued by Venezuela

Some people are not allowed to enter Canada
Some people are inadmissible to Canada, which means they are not allowed to enter the country. You can be inadmissible for several reasons, including being involved in:

criminal activity
human rights violations
organized crime
You can also be inadmissible for security, health or financial reasons. Find out more about inadmissibility.

Minor children travelling to Canada
Make sure you know what to do if your minor children (children under the age of 18) will be travelling with you, with someone else, or alone.

Visitor visa

How to apply
The Canada Post labour disruption will cause delays in mail delivery

We’re still processing applications normally. However, there will be delays in

sending applications mailed within or to Canada
getting mail from us
We encourage you to apply online if possible. If you need to apply on paper, use another courier to send us your application.

Venezuelan passport holders

You may need to complete extra steps when you fill out your application.

Prepare documents and apply
The reason you’re traveling to Canada determines the way you apply and the documents you need to submit with your visa application.

Why are you applying for a visitor visa? (required)
To visit as a tourist
To visit for business
To visit your spouse or partner who has sponsored you for permanent residence
For a family visit
For compassionate reasons
To join a vessel as a marine crew member (known as a “seafarer”)
None of the above

On this page
Your fingerprints and photo (biometrics)
Processing your visitor visa application
Check your application status
If we approve your application
If we refuse your application
Your fingerprints and photo (biometrics)
Book your biometrics collection appointment as soon as you can to avoid processing delays.

Find out how to give biometrics

Processing your visitor visa application
We’ll check your application to make sure you have all the documents you need.

If it's incomplete, your application may be refused.

We may also ask you to

go to an interview with our officials in your country
send more information
get a medical exam
get a police certificate
We’ll tell you what to do if you need to do any of these.

We process most applications in a few weeks or less. Processing times depend on the visa office and if you need to do any extra steps (listed above).

Check your application status
The way to check your application status depends on how you applied. Find out how to check your application status.

If we approve your application
If you applied online
You’ll get 2 letters in your IRCC account:

a letter with instructions to submit your passport
our decision letter
This approval doesn’t mean you can travel to Canada. You need to wait until we put the visa in the passport you submit to us.
If you applied on paper
When your application is approved, any original documents, including your passport with the visa inside, will be returned to you.
If we refuse your application
If you applied online
You’ll get our decision in your IRCC account. This will explain why we refused your application.
If you applied on paper
An explanation of why your application was refused will be sent to you, along with any original documents, including your passport.