Nonimmigrant visa overview
U.S. Visa - Directory of Visa Categories
U.S. law provides for a wide variety of visas and classifications (“nonimmigrant visas”), all of which have particular requirements. Nonimmigrant visas are generally intended for short-term stays in the U.S. of a few months or years. An immigrant visa holder, on the other hand, is entitled to apply for entry to the U.S. as an immigrant, receives a Green Card after entry and can live and work in the U.S. indefinitely.

Which nonimmigrant visa one qualifies for depends not only on one’s intended activities, but also on one’s nationality. For example, certain visas are only available to citizens of Chile, Singapore, Mexico or Canada.

There are nonimmigrant visas for employees with a college education and employees with no education, visas for investors and entrepreneurs and visas for executives and managers. There are visas for renowned artists and athletes and special visas for entire sports teams and performers. And which visa is available to persons wanting to study in the U.S. depends on whether they intend to enroll in a full academic program of study, or participate in vocational trainings or courses.

The following are the most important U.S. nonimmigrant visa categories:

B-1 Visa (business visitors)
E-1 Visa (treaty traders)
E-2 Visa (treaty investors)
H-1B Visa (temporary workers)
H-2B Visa (temporary non-agricultural workers)
I Visa (journalists, media representatives)
J Visa (trainees, au-pairs)
K-1 Visa (fiancé(e)s of U.S. citizens)
K-3 Visa (spouses of U.S. citizens)
L-1 Visa (intracompany transferees)
O Visa (extraordinary ability - artists, athletes, scientists)
P Visa (artists, athletes, entertainers, group performers)
R Visa (religious workers)
The list above is not exhaustive. Depending on your particular circumstances, there may be other nonimmigrant visa categories available to you. Details about other nonimmigrant visa options are available in our blog.

Overview of nonimmigrant visa categories
Below you will find a longer list nonimmigrant visa categories for travel to the U.S. For each nonimmigrant visa type there are specific requirements that have to be fulfilled for the visa to be granted. Regulations regarding nonimmigrant visas can be confusing, making it difficult to make the right selection. If you need assistance choosing the right nonimmigrant visa for yourself, for an investment or a business venture, for an employee or for a relative, our experts are here to help.

A visa	For diplomats and foreign government officials
B visa	For visitors (tourists, business travelers)
C visa	Transit visa (for crew members of a ship or an airplane, travelers to the UN headquarters in New York)
D visa	For crewmembers of a (cruise) ship or an airplane
E visa	For treaty investors and treaty traders from countries which have bilateral trade agreements with the U.S. 
F visa	For pupils and students (universities, conservatories, high schools), or participants of language courses
G visa	For foreign government officials who are members of international organizations (e.g. UN)
H visa	For temporary workers
I visa	For journalists and media representatives
J visa	For participants in exchange programs (pupils, students, au-pairs, trainees, etc.)
K visa 	For fiancé(e)s or spouses of U.S. citizens
L visa	For intracompany transferees (executives, managers, workers with specialized knowledge
M visa	For trainees/students in non-academic training programs (vocational training)
N visa	For parents and children of certain Greencard holders
O visa	For individuals with extraordinary ability or achievement (athletes, artists, scientists, entrepreneurs, etc.)
P visa	For individuals with extraordinary abilities who perform together (orchestra members, circus artists, athletes)
Q visa	For participants in cultural exchange programs
R visa	For religious workers of a recognized religious community 
S visa	For individuals with certain knowledge of criminal activities in organisations or companies (witnesses)
T visa	For victims of human trafficking
U visa	For crime victims who suffered mental or physical abuse
V visa	For spouses and children of Greencard holders
We advise on U.S. visas
If you need assistance with the application for a U.S. visa feel free to contact us by e-mail (info@visum-usa.com) or by phone (+49 69 76 75 77 85 26). During the consultation we can discuss which visa(s) you may be eligible for and provide you with an overview of the application requirements. We can also assist you with the entire application process.

B-1 Visa – Temporary Business Visitor
The B-1 Visa (Temporary Business Visitor) is for individuals traveling to the U.S. to engage in business activities. Because the B-1 Visa is not an employment visa, work is not allowed. Individuals usually apply for a B-1 Visa when they cannot enter the U.S. under the visa waiver program (ESTA) because, for example, they wish to remain in the U.S. longer than 90 days or have a prior visa refusal or are otherwise disqualified from the ESTA-Program.

B-1 visa – U.S. Visa for temporary business visitors
As is this case with most other nonimmigrant visas, the applicant must show that the purpose of his trip is consistent with the visa type, that he has no immigrant intent (i.e. that he has strong ties to a country outside the U.S. and will leave the U.S. at the end of his stay) and that he has or is receiving funds to cover the costs of his trip.

Temporary stay in the U.S.
The applicant must be able to show that he intends to stay in the U.S. temporarily. To show that his stay will be temporary, the applicant must present evidence that he has concrete plans and intentions related to actual business activities. An intent to depart is usually shown by presenting evidence of a permanent, full-time job, relevant business ties as well as social and family relationships outside the U.S.

Business activities in the U.S. 
The business activities permitted when travelling on a B-1 Visa include, but are not limited to, attending meetings or conventions and negotiating contracts. However, because work is prohibited, a B-1 Visa traveler should never receive any salary or compensation from a U.S. company or individual for activities performed in the U.S. Reimbursement for travel expenses, on the other hand, are generally permissible. 

It is sometimes difficult to determine with certainty whether an activity is or is not allowed when traveling on a B-1 Visa. For example, amateur athletes and amateur performers are generally permitted to perform and participate in events as long as they receive no payment for their performance or participation and only incidental expenses are reimbursed. Professional entertainers, on the other hand, are prohibited from using a B-1 visa to perform – even if they receive no payment for the performance. 

Other permissible B-1 activities include attending scientific and business conferences, attending court hearings and engaging in independent research. If certain requirements are met, the B-1 Visa may also be used to engage in limited work activities, such as the installation and maintenance of industrial equipment or machinery purchased outside the United States. However, anyone seeking to take advantage of these limited exceptions must very carefully follow the relevant rules or risk a denial of entry or status violation.

Each applicant must apply for his or her own B-1 Visa and must meet the visa requirements independently. 

Accompanying family members
Family members of a B-1 Visa holder can apply for a B-2 Visa as tourists.

Our B-1 visa services
If you need assistance with the application for a visa feel free to contact us by e-mail (info@visum-usa.com) or by phone (+49 69 76 75 77 85 26). During the consultation we can discuss which visa(s) you may be eligible for and provide you with an overview of the application requirements. We can also assist you with the entire application process.

We can customize our services to meet your needs. For example, if you have already decided that a B-1 Visa is the right one for you, we can forego the initial consultation and begin the process of assisting you with the B-1 Visa application right away. Contact us for more information.

E-1 Visa - Treaty Trader Visa For The USA
E-1 Visa - Treaty Trader Visa For The USA - Visa Application Services
If you want to live in the USA for a longer period of time, a U.S. E visa is a good option. The E-1 visa is available for both employees and self-employed persons.

Unlike most other visa types, E visas can be extended indefinitely. However, the visas do need to be renewed every two to five years. While an L visa requires the holder to leave the USA again after seven years at the latest and bars them from entering the USA again with an L or H visa for one year, an E visa practically allows permanent residence - at least as long as the relevant requirements are met.

Contents on this page:

What type of commercial activity is required for an E-1 visa?
What requirements do companies need to fulfil?
What are the requirements for applicants for an E-1 treaty trader visa?
What is necessary for the application and the processing time?
Can I bring my family with me to the U.S. on an E-1 visa?
Our worldwide advice on the E-1 treaty trader visa
What type of commercial activity is required for an E-1 visa?
An E-1 visa is only issued to self-employed persons or employees of U.S. companies who trade between the treaty country (e.g. Germany) and the USA.

The term "trade" is to be understood relatively broadly in this context. It includes not only the exchange of goods but also the provision of services in the transport sector as well as in the banking and insurance industries and in the tourism industry. It is important to note that the exchange takes place directly between the USA and the contracting country.

The trade must be of a certain size or substantial. The turnover amount plays a role that should not be underestimated here; however, the regularity and frequency of the exchange of goods or services over a longer period of time are more important.

It is indispensable that the trade already exists. Anyone looking to first set up a business in the USA in order to then engage in trade must apply for the E-2 investor visa; the E-1 visa is not initially available in this case.

What requirements do companies need to fulfil?
In order to work on an E-1 treaty trader visa for a company located in the USA, that company must be at least 50 percent owned by natural persons of the other treaty country. Thus, an indispensable requirement is that the U.S. target company is at least 50 percent owned by German citizens if Germans are applying for the E-1 visa. If, for example, U.S. citizens also intend to operate within the company, a minimum of 50 percent German participation must be particularly heeded when founding the company. Caution is also advised when Germans who already hold a permanent residence permit for the USA (Green Card) are involved or intend to be involved. In the present context, they are not considered German citizens.

Particularly in the case of larger companies, it is also important to note: If, in the course of time, the shareholder structure changes in such a way that the requirements related to nationality are no longer met, previously issued E visas will become invalid, even if the validity date printed on them is still current. Employees who are in the USA during the change of ownership would be considered illegal after the change is completed.

These requirements also apply accordingly to cases from Austria, Switzerland or other states with which an E-1 agreement exists.

What are the requirements for applicants for an E-1 treaty trader visa?
Both the E-1 and E-2 visas are available to citizens of those countries that have bilateral trade agreements with the USA. In Germany, this is the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, which entered into force on July 14, 1956. German citizens are therefore generally entitled to apply for an E visa.

The applicant for the E-1 visa must be either the direct or indirect owner of the company, an executive employee or an employee with company-specific specialized knowledge, e.g. concerning the products being traded.

What is necessary for the application and the processing time?
The application process for the E-1 treaty trader visa includes several forms to be completed and an application package to be assembled. The documents must be sent by post and by e-mail to the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt/Main for the review of these documents. An important document is the business plan (or tax documents in the case of already existing and operating enterprises) with a profit and loss account forecast for the next five years. In particular, the business plan should show that the trade already exists, how it is to develop and that the majority of it takes place or will take place between the USA and Germany; precise percentage information is required here. Of course, information on the applicant, the (potential) customers and, if applicable, a German parent company must also be provided.

You should expect a processing time at the U.S. consulate of eight to twelve weeks. After reviewing the application, the U.S. Consulate will contact you and you can make an appointment for you and your (willing to travel) family members (children under 14 usually do not need to appear in person) to come to the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt/Main.

Can I bring my family with me to the U.S. on an E-1 visa?
The principal applicant qualifying for an E-1 visa can also bring his or her spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 with him or her to the U.S. without having to meet any special conditions. However, they are also required to fill out various forms.

The children are allowed to attend school or to study; the spouse is allowed to take a job in the USA. Whether the latter needs a work permit in addition to their visa, however, is disputed between the USCIS and the Social Security Administration. To be on the safe side, a relevant application should be submitted before starting work. However, this can only be done after entering the USA and not already in connection with the visa. The relevant application form is the I-765.

E-1 Visa - Treaty Trader Visa For The USA
E-1 Visa - Treaty Trader Visa For The USA - Visa Application Services
If you want to live in the USA for a longer period of time, a U.S. E visa is a good option. The E-1 visa is available for both employees and self-employed persons.

Unlike most other visa types, E visas can be extended indefinitely. However, the visas do need to be renewed every two to five years. While an L visa requires the holder to leave the USA again after seven years at the latest and bars them from entering the USA again with an L or H visa for one year, an E visa practically allows permanent residence - at least as long as the relevant requirements are met.

Contents on this page:

What type of commercial activity is required for an E-1 visa?
What requirements do companies need to fulfil?
What are the requirements for applicants for an E-1 treaty trader visa?
What is necessary for the application and the processing time?
Can I bring my family with me to the U.S. on an E-1 visa?
Our worldwide advice on the E-1 treaty trader visa
What type of commercial activity is required for an E-1 visa?
An E-1 visa is only issued to self-employed persons or employees of U.S. companies who trade between the treaty country (e.g. Germany) and the USA.

The term "trade" is to be understood relatively broadly in this context. It includes not only the exchange of goods but also the provision of services in the transport sector as well as in the banking and insurance industries and in the tourism industry. It is important to note that the exchange takes place directly between the USA and the contracting country.

The trade must be of a certain size or substantial. The turnover amount plays a role that should not be underestimated here; however, the regularity and frequency of the exchange of goods or services over a longer period of time are more important.

It is indispensable that the trade already exists. Anyone looking to first set up a business in the USA in order to then engage in trade must apply for the E-2 investor visa; the E-1 visa is not initially available in this case.

What requirements do companies need to fulfil?
In order to work on an E-1 treaty trader visa for a company located in the USA, that company must be at least 50 percent owned by natural persons of the other treaty country. Thus, an indispensable requirement is that the U.S. target company is at least 50 percent owned by German citizens if Germans are applying for the E-1 visa. If, for example, U.S. citizens also intend to operate within the company, a minimum of 50 percent German participation must be particularly heeded when founding the company. Caution is also advised when Germans who already hold a permanent residence permit for the USA (Green Card) are involved or intend to be involved. In the present context, they are not considered German citizens.

Particularly in the case of larger companies, it is also important to note: If, in the course of time, the shareholder structure changes in such a way that the requirements related to nationality are no longer met, previously issued E visas will become invalid, even if the validity date printed on them is still current. Employees who are in the USA during the change of ownership would be considered illegal after the change is completed.

These requirements also apply accordingly to cases from Austria, Switzerland or other states with which an E-1 agreement exists.

What are the requirements for applicants for an E-1 treaty trader visa?
Both the E-1 and E-2 visas are available to citizens of those countries that have bilateral trade agreements with the USA. In Germany, this is the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, which entered into force on July 14, 1956. German citizens are therefore generally entitled to apply for an E visa.

The applicant for the E-1 visa must be either the direct or indirect owner of the company, an executive employee or an employee with company-specific specialized knowledge, e.g. concerning the products being traded.

What is necessary for the application and the processing time?
The application process for the E-1 treaty trader visa includes several forms to be completed and an application package to be assembled. The documents must be sent by post and by e-mail to the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt/Main for the review of these documents. An important document is the business plan (or tax documents in the case of already existing and operating enterprises) with a profit and loss account forecast for the next five years. In particular, the business plan should show that the trade already exists, how it is to develop and that the majority of it takes place or will take place between the USA and Germany; precise percentage information is required here. Of course, information on the applicant, the (potential) customers and, if applicable, a German parent company must also be provided.

You should expect a processing time at the U.S. consulate of eight to twelve weeks. After reviewing the application, the U.S. Consulate will contact you and you can make an appointment for you and your (willing to travel) family members (children under 14 usually do not need to appear in person) to come to the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt/Main.

Can I bring my family with me to the U.S. on an E-1 visa?
The principal applicant qualifying for an E-1 visa can also bring his or her spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 with him or her to the U.S. without having to meet any special conditions. However, they are also required to fill out various forms.

The children are allowed to attend school or to study; the spouse is allowed to take a job in the USA. Whether the latter needs a work permit in addition to their visa, however, is disputed between the USCIS and the Social Security Administration. To be on the safe side, a relevant application should be submitted before starting work. However, this can only be done after entering the USA and not already in connection with the visa. The relevant application form is the I-765.

H-1B Visa - Employment Visa For Highly Skilled Workers
Advice on The H-1B Visa - U.S. Employment Visa For Highly Skilled Workers
The H-1B visa is for workers who wish to work in a U.S. company for a limited period of time. The advantage of this visa category is that, in contrast to the L visa and the E visa, there are no special requirements for the U.S. company. The requirements for the applicant are also much fewer; in particular, the applicant is not required to hold a managerial position in the U.S. company.

The disadvantage of the H-1B visa is that the number of visas issued per year is usually limited in quantity. It is therefore advisable to first check whether a different visa might be considered.

There is no limit on the number of people who wish to work for universities or for nonprofit or certain government-related research institutions.

Contents on this page:

What qualifications do applicants need to have?
What are the requirements for the workplace?
What is the application process?
What is the H-1B quota system?
What is the validity period of the H-1B visa?
New H-1B fees amended to USD 100,000: What you need to know
Can I apply for a green card with an H-1B visa?
Can family members come to the USA with the applicant?
What qualifications do applicants need to have?
The basic requirement for the H-1B visa is that the applicant must have a U.S. bachelor's degree or a foreign graduate degree at least equivalent to a U.S. bachelor's degree. Several years of work experience or a combination of both may also qualify an applicant for an H-1B visa. In addition, the H-1B visa can also be applied for by models who usually do not have a university degree in their field.

If the applicant earned his or her degree from a foreign educational institution, he or she must demonstrate that the degree is at least equivalent to a U.S. bachelor's degree. There are various service providers in the USA who can carry out such an evaluation and issue a corresponding certificate recognized by the immigration authorities (keyword: "foreign credential evaluation"). Persons who have obtained a Master's degree at a university in the USA may benefit from the fact that a certain quota of H-1B work visas is reserved for persons with this type of degree.

What are the requirements for the workplace?
When applying for an H-1B visa, as with all other visas, it must be proven that a specific job offer from the USA exists.

In this context, the offered job must require the applicant's special skills, i.e. in particular the U.S. bachelor's degree. The anticipated salary must not be less than the amount paid to employees with comparable experience and qualifications, and the recruitment of the applicant must not have an adverse effect on that group of employees. Last but not least, there must not be a strike at the company where the applicant is to be employed.

Before the employer can file its petition for the applicant with the immigration authorities, they must file what is known as a Labor Condition Attestation (LCA) with the U.S. Department of Labor. This must include information on salary and the absence of strikes. It must also be certified that either the relevant union with respect to the petitioner has been notified of the H-1B petition or, if there is no union, that the employer has posted a notice to that effect for at least ten days in their establishment.

However, if the business relies more on workers with H-1B status, this can complicate the process.

What is the application process?
In 2020, the application process was significantly reconfigured, and electronic registration was introduced (H-1B electronic registration process).

The first step is that the U.S. company seeking to employ foreign nationals must register with the USCIS in March. The registration period usually begins one week after that, during which the U.S. company (petitioner) can then submit data on potential foreign employees (beneficiaries). This is permitted for a period of about two weeks. If, in the end, the number of applications received is greater than the visas that can be granted, a lottery will be held, and the "winners" will then be informed that, from April 1 onwards, petitions can be submitted. Depending on how many petitions are received, another registration period may be held starting in early August.

The petitions, which can be filed as of April 1, are somewhat more extensive than the information that must be submitted for registration; they include, among other things, the I-129 application form and documentation on the potential employee, such as, for example, evidence of his or her education and, if applicable, the equivalency of his or her foreign degree.

Those who do not accelerate the processing by paying the premium processing fee (2,500 US dollars) will not receive feedback on the petition after approx. 15 days but may have to wait several months. Once the petition has been approved, the final step is to apply for the actual visa at a U.S. consulate in Germany.

The H-1B visa is therefore subject to certain deadlines and cannot be applied for at any time, as is the case with many other work visas (e.g. categories E, L, O, J).

What is the H-1B quota system?
The issuance of H-1B visas is subject to quotas. Only 65,000 H-1B visas are granted per fiscal year (which begins in October of each year), and another 20,000 may be granted to applicants who have earned a Master's or higher degree from a U.S. university. Because of various special regulations, including nationality-specific regulations, well over 85,000 H-1B visas are eventually issued.

What is the validity period of the H-1B visa?
In most cases, the H-1B visa is initially issued for three years and is renewable thereafter. The maximum stay may not exceed six years. However, this maximum period of stay may not apply if an I-140 petition for a green card is pending.

New H-1B fees amended to USD 100,000: What you need to know
In a recent update in September 2025,  President Donald Trump amended the H-1B visa fee structure, raising the cost of applying for an H-1B visa to USD 100,000. This fee increase, as outlined by the White House, is part of an ongoing effort to fund border security and reduce visa fraud. These changes will have a significant impact on employers and foreign workers, especially those in industries that rely on specialized talent from abroad.

The most notable change is the substantial hike in the base filing fee for H-1B applications. Employers will now face a USD 100,000 fee to sponsor foreign workers; a sharp increase compared to previous years (USD 1,000). A portion of this fee will go toward funding fraud detection and border security efforts. Non-profit organizations and educational institutions may still be eligible for reduced fees, but for-profit businesses will be subject to the full USD 100,000 fee, which could influence their decision to sponsor H-1B workers.

As these changes affect both employers and workers, it’s important to understand how the new fees impact your situation. WINHELLER can help you understand these updates and provide the guidance you need to manage the process effectively.

Can I apply for a green card with an H-1B visa?
Unlike many other visas, including the H-2B visa, the H-1B visa does not require the applicant to prove that he or she has no immigration intentions or that he or she will maintain a foreign residence. Accordingly, without this being a disadvantage to him or her as a matter of law, the applicant may file a green card petition while working in the U.S. on a H-1B visa.

Can family members come to the USA with the applicant?
Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 may apply for an H-4 visa to accompany the applicant. Albeit, they are not allowed to then work. There is, however, one important exception to this rule: If an I-140 petition has been approved for the H-1B visa holder, the spouse holding an H-4 visa can apply for work authorization.

H-2B Visa - U.S. Employment Visa
The H-2B visa category is intended for non-agricultural employees seeking to work in the U.S. temporarily. 

H-2B visa for German nationals
Since December 18, 2012, only nationals of certain countries are eligible to apply for an H-2B visa. For a long time, German nationals were not eligible, unlike nationals from many other EU countries, including Switzerland, Austria, the Netherlands and Spain.

However, as of January 30, 2018, Germans nationals are eligible for an H-2B visa. Other nationals currently eligible for an H-2B visa are listed below.

List of H-2B eligible nationals
Worldwide advice on U.S. employment visas
Nationals of the following countries are currently eligible for the H-2B category:

Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kiribati, Latvia, Lichtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malta, Moldova, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Nauru, The Netherlands, Nicaragua, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, The Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Vanuatu (status as of spring 2018)

H-2B applicant’s qualifications – university degree not required
In contrast to the H-1B visa category, the H-2B applicant is not required to provide proof of specific qualifications. In particular, no university degree is required.

However, the applicant must produce sufficient evidence that he has any relevant skills and knowledge that are required for the offered position.

If the H-2B visa will be used to perform unskilled labor, evidence of special skills and knowledge are not required. 

Requirements for the workplace
The offered position must be temporary in nature. Work that qualifying as temporary may include

a project-based activity or a one-time occurrence,
seasonal employment,
employment resulting from holiday-related peaks in the tourism sector, or
intermittent employment which requires occasional work without the prospect of permanent employment.
Employer must file a temporary labor certification
Before the employee may apply for a U.S. visa at the consulate, the employer must have filed a Temporary Labor Certification (the “Certification”) with the U.S. Department of Labor and a petition with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The Certification can be filed no earlier than 120 days before the expected start date of the employment.

Furthermore, the employer must provide public notice regarding the job opening to potential U.S. employees. And the employer may be legally obligated to interview – and under certain circumstances hire – local candidates who are qualified for the position.

Only after the employer has shown that there are no suitable U.S. candidates for the position will the U.S. Department of Labor granted the employer permission to move forward with the process of hiring the foreign applicant.

Many employers will include in the job description a foreign language skills requirement to reduce the likelihood that a suitable U.S. employee will be found. However, the U.S. Department of Labor carefully considers foreign language skills requirements and often requires detailed evidence that such requirements are demonstrably indispensable for the position.

Validity and extension of the H-2B visa
In most cases, the H-2B visa is initially issued for a maximum period of 1 year and can be extended, but not for longer than a total period of 3 years. If you want to extend your U.S. visa, we can support you with all applications and legal matters. Please do not hesitate to contact us!

Relatives traveling with the H-2B applicant
Spouses and unmarried children under 21 can apply for an H-4 visa to accompany the main applicant. However, they are generally not granted the permission to work.

L-1 Visa - Work Visa For The USA
L-1 Visa - Work Visa For The USA
Contents on this page:

Who is eligible for the L-1 visa?
How long is the L-1 visa valid?
What requirements must companies fulfil?
Relationship between the two companies involved
Ongoing business activities in Germany
Opening of a new office
What are the requirements for the L-1 visa applicant?
Managerial position
Specialized knowledge
Duration of the activity and full-time employment
All requirements must be fulfilled when submitting the petition
Blanket Petition - When the petition for an L-1 visa is not applicable
Family members and L-1 visa
Our services on the L-1 visa
Who is eligible for the L-1 visa?
a) Establishing a branch, subsidiary or office in the USA

For entrepreneurs who have already established a going concern in Germany, it is possible to apply for a so-called L-1 visa in order to, after formal establishment, set up a branch office, a new office or a subsidiary in the USA or to send employees to an already existing, affiliated company.

b) The L-1 visa as an alternative to the E-2 visa

An L-1 visa can also be considered, in particular, if the path to the USA via an E visa is blocked because the relevant requirements, for example with regard to existing trade, the required investment or citizenship - which plays an important role in the E visa -, are not or cannot be fulfilled.

c) An L-1 visa for nonprofit organizations

Furthermore, the L-1 visa also offers nonprofit organizations, which per se cannot qualify for an E visa, the opportunity to gain a foothold in the USA.

How long is the L-1 visa valid?
To open a new office, the L visa is valid for one year or residence in the USA is permitted for one year, after which it must be renewed. A stay of up to three years can be granted for renewals or for L visas applicable for collaboration with companies that are already in business. Renewals are possible for a two-year period.

An L visa can be renewed a limited number of times. The holder of an L-1A visa (manager, executive) can thus work in the USA for a maximum of seven years; the holder of an L-1B visa (employee with specialized skills) can work for no more than five years. In this, it is not the possession of the visa for the specified period that counts but rather the physical stay in the USA. There may be exceptions for commuters who split their working time between the U.S. company and a group company outside the USA, i.e. in which an extension beyond the five or seven years is possible.

It should also be noted that the L visa is only valid together with a petition. It may well be that a visa is issued for five years but the petition is only valid for three years; in which case, the holder is only allowed to work in the USA for three years and would need to have the petition extended before the expiry date, but without having to apply for a new visa.

What requirements must companies fulfil?
1. Relationship between the two companies involved

The first requirement is that the existing company in the home country and the company established in the USA or the office to be opened have a qualifying relationship with each other. 

Such a qualifying relationship exists, for example, when a dependent branch is established in the USA. However, it can also exist if both companies are legally independent. The decisive factor is then, above all, that one company has a stake in the other and that one company exercises de facto control over the other. However, a majority shareholding is not mandatory. 
Finally, a qualifying relationship for an L-1 visa also exists if both companies are owned and controlled by a third company or a natural person, for example, belonging to one and the same sole proprietor.

The L-1 visa is therefore usually considered for parent, subsidiary or sister companies.

2. Ongoing business activities in Germany

The home company must maintain its business operations while the employee is in the USA. An L-1 visa is therefore not suitable for individual entrepreneurs whose business at home stands idle while they set up a new business in the USA.

3. Opening of a new office

In connection with the secondment of an employee to open a new office, it must be proven - namely, at the time of application - that sufficient office space has been rented. The visa is initially issued for only one year.

What are the requirements for the L-1 visa applicant?
The requirement for an L-1 visa is that the person to be transferred to the USA has either held a managerial position in the German company or has acquired and applied company-specific specialized knowledge. The position in the USA must also be a managerial position or require the application of specialized knowledge acquired abroad. However, the position in the USA and in Germany do not have to be the same. That is, someone with a managerial function in Germany could also be employed with specialized knowledge in the USA and vice versa.

1. Managerial position

A person operates in a managerial position if he or she is responsible for the management of the company or one of its departments and supervises other employees in a senior position and has at least a say in the hiring and dismissal of other employees.

2. Specialized knowledge

Specialized knowledge that also qualifies for an L-1 visa may, for example, relate to the product range or services offered by the company. However, an L-1 visa may also be considered for jobs that require intimate knowledge of internal company procedures. This is, nevertheless, vital in such cases in which the skills required for the position are not available on the U.S. labor market.

3. Duration of the activity and full-time employment

Last but not least, it is required that the employee to be sent to the USA has been employed by the German company in a managerial position or with specialized knowledge for at least one year within three years prior to the application process. It should also be noted that only full-time employment can be considered and that part-time employment, even over several years, is not sufficient under any conditions.

All requirements must be fulfilled when submitting the petition
It should be borne in mind that all the factual requirements that must be met for the petition to be approved must be in place at the time the petition is submitted. If documents, evidence or information are missing, the USCIS will usually request them (request for evidence), but no opportunities will be granted to first create the additional necessary conditions.

For example, if the U.S. company is based in one U.S. state but the petitioner intends to do business in a different U.S. state, both the state permits must have been granted and an office must already have been leased when the petition is filed. If the applicant forgot to submit the tenancy agreement, this can usually be submitted at a later date. If, however, the applicant forgot to conclude such a contract, it is not helpful to quickly achieve this and send it after the petition has been received. An entirely new petition must be submitted.

Blanket Petition - When the petition for an L-1 visa is not applicable
The application process for an L-1 visa is rather complex. The U.S. employer must file a petition with a wide variety of documentation with the U.S. immigration authorities (USCIS) in advance. Only after the petition has been approved can the employee then apply for the actual visa at the U.S. consulate.

However, companies that meet some special requirements have the opportunity to apply for a so-called blanket petition. This makes it possible for the employees to be posted to actually only be required to attend the appointment at the U.S. consulate. Thus, it is no longer necessary to submit a petition in advance.

Generally, only a U.S. company that has been in business for at least one year and meets one of the following requirements is eligible for a so-called blanket petition:

At least ten L-1 visas have been successfully applied for via the U.S. company (or U.S. group) in the past twelve months (namely, for managers, executives or so-called specialized knowledge professionals, whereby only members of certain occupational groups fall into the latter category, i.e. specialized knowledge alone is not sufficient).
The U.S. company or U.S.-based affiliated companies have annual sales of at least 25 million U.S. dollars.
The U.S. company or group employs at least 1,000 workers in the USA.
If such a blanket petition is approved by the USCIS for the first time, additional employees (managers, executives, specialized knowledge professionals) can be sent to the USA without first filing a petition. One consular appointment is sufficient.

Family members and L-1 visa
Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 can be issued an L-2 visa. However, only the spouse is permitted to work in the USA.


O Visa - U.S. Visa For Persons With Extraordinary Abilities
Contents on this page:

3 categories of the O visa
What extraordinary skills are required?
a) List of criteria for the fields of science, education, economics and sports:
b) List of criteria for the field of art:
How do I apply for an O visa for the USA?
What is the processing time for the O visa?
Which visa must my accompanying personnel apply for?
What type of visa applies to family members?
How long is the O visa valid?
O visa or P visa - When do I apply for which visa?
We will help you with questions regarding the O visa
3 categories of the O visa
U.S. visa: O Visa for Individuals Who Are Extraordinary
The O visa allows artists, entertainers, actors, athletes, scientists and the like to live and work in the USA for a limited period. The prerequisite for an O visa is that the applicant would like to work in the USA in the field related to their extraordinary abilities. It is not necessary to find a U.S. employer who is looking to hire the applicant on a permanent, long-term basis. If such an employer exists, they may file the petition. However, if a U.S. employer is not available, a U.S. agent must file the O-1 petition. 

The O visa includes three main sub-categories: the O-1A visa, the O-1B visa and the O-2 visa. The O-3 visa is for spouse and children of an O-1 or O-2 alien.

O-1A visa
An O-1A visa is available to individuals who possess extraordinary ability in the field of sciences, arts, education, business or athletics; have received ongoing national or international recognition for their extraordinary ability; and intend to work in the U.S. temporarily in the same field.
 
O-1B visa
Persons who can demonstrate a record of extraordinary achievement in film or television production may qualify for an O-1B visa to work in the U.S. temporarily in the same field.
 
O-2 visa
Persons who are “essential” to an O-1 visa holder who is coming to the U.S. for an artistic or athletic performance (including a motion picture or television production) may be able to qualify for an O-2 visa to accompany the O-1 visa holder.
What extraordinary skills are required?
The term "extraordinary" is interpreted differently depending on the field in which the applicant would like to work in the USA. A person looking to work in the field of the arts in the USA must demonstrate "extraordinary abilities" that differ from those of a person planning to work in science, education/training, business or sports. To work in the film and television industry, one must have rendered extraordinary achievements.

Extraordinary skills in the arts

In order to demonstrate that an applicant has extraordinary abilities in the arts, the applicant must show that they have "distinction." The term "distinction" is also used to describe a "high level of achievement." Accordingly, a high degree of perfection is required. The applicant must clearly stand out from among their peers, e.g. as a leader in their field or at least widely known or for having a good reputation.
 
Extraordinary skills in the fields of science, education/training, sports

In these areas, the applicant must show that he or she has extraordinary skills. This refers to a high level of expertise or competence that makes the applicant one of the best in their field. It must place them in the top few percent in their field.
 
Extraordinary skills in the film and television industry

An applicant seeking to work in the film or television industry must demonstrate "extraordinary achievement." The applicant must then show that they have been extraordinarily successful and reached a high level of accomplishment. The applicant must demonstrate above average achievements and be generally regarded as "outstanding, notable or leading." As a rule, the requirements for actors are higher than for other O-1 aspirants.
a) List of criteria for the fields of science, education, economics and sports:
nationally or internationally recognized awards,
membership in associations open only to persons with unique abilities,
employment with such an association in an appropriate position,
activity as a juror in the relevant field,
publications about the applicant in relevant professional journals and/or national newspapers,
publications by the applicant in recognized journals,
significant contributions in the relevant field (e.g. patents),
an above-average salary or compensation.
Please note that it is usually insufficient to, for example, submit a newspaper article or show proof of membership. The USCIS also generally requires evidence in connection with a criterion that the newspaper is national, how large the circulation is, among other things, in comparison to other newspapers or that, and to what extent, extraordinary skills are a prerequisite for membership and the like.

b) List of criteria for the field of art:
Participation in a leadership position in productions or events that have an outstanding reputation,
The applicant has received international or national recognition for their achievements,
The applicant holds a leading or critical position in an organization with an outstanding reputation,
Commercial success or critical acclaim,
Recognition by relevant organizations, government agencies or experts,
An above-average salary or remuneration.
Again, the point made above is that mere proof as such is, in most cases, insufficient for the petition.

How do I apply for an O visa for the USA?
1. U.S. Petitioner
As stated above, the participation of a U.S. petitioner is necessary for the process. A U.S. employer or a U.S. agent may act as such. The U.S. agent then represents the foreign employer and/or the applicant.

If the petitioner has a U.S. employer, this employer may act as petitioner. As a rule, the employment contract must then be attached to the application.

If the applicant does not have a U.S. employer but only one foreign employer, is self-employed, or would like to work for multiple U.S. employers (e.g. concert promoters for a musician, magazines for a fashion photographer), they will need the assistance of a U.S. agent or agency. In this case, the agent or agency files the petition on behalf of the applicant or employer(s). This requires various contractual documents (between the petitioner and the applicant, between the petitioner and the U.S. employers). In the case of multiple U.S. employers, each U.S. employer can also file a separate petition. However, this is not recommended due to reasons of cost and time.

It shall be noted: A person (legal or natural) residing outside the United States cannot file a petition as an agent or employer.

2. Letter of recommendation
At the time of application, the submission of a letter of recommendation from a U.S. trade union or U.S. peer group (in the form of an advisory opinion, consultation letter or no-objection letter) providing commentary on the applicant's qualifications and the activity to be carried out in the USA is required. Unions or peer groups usually require the submission of the fully compiled petition in order to issue the letter or to be able to assess from their perspective whether the applicant has extraordinary abilities. However, the USCIS is not bound by its decision and assessment.

3. Activity at several locations
If the applicant intends to perform or work in more than one place, an itinerary showing the place and date of each activity must be attached to the application.

What is the processing time for the O visa?
The procedure for obtaining an O visa is essentially a two-stage process. The first step is to file the petition with the USCIS. Once the petition is approved, the second step is to apply for the actual visa at a U.S. Consulate.

The USCIS may require several months to review the petition. By paying a fee currently in the amount of 2,500 USD, the processing time can, however, be reduced to 15 days. Nevertheless, in many cases, the USCIS does not respond with a final decision after the deadline but instead requests further evidence, documentation and information. Once the petition has been approved, the visa application is usually a mere formality. The applicant must complete an application form (purely electronic or online), pay the visa fee and must then make an appointment to appear in person at the U.S. Consulate. Appointments are usually available within a few days or one to two weeks. As a rule, the Consulate does not review whether the specific requirements for the O visa have been met.

Which visa must my accompanying personnel apply for?
If an artist or athlete holds an O-1 visa, an O-2 visa may be issued for accompanying personnel if the accompanying person is indispensable to the O-1 visa holder's venture. Whether someone is indispensable depends on the visa holder's occupation, the O-2 applicant's skills and/or knowledge and cooperation prior to submitting the application.

If the O-1 visa holder works in the fields of science, business, education/training, an O-2 visa cannot be issued.

What type of visa applies to family members?
Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 may accompany persons traveling to the United States on an O-1 or O-2 visa. However, they are not then allowed to work. They will receive a U.S. visa of the category O-3.

How long is the O visa valid?
The visa entitles the holder to enter the country ten days before the start of the activity or the date indicated on the application (more precisely: the approval notice) up to a U.S. stay ten days beyond the date indicated on the application. However, work is not allowed during these ten days.

IMPORTANT: The visa does not determine how long the visa holder is allowed to work in the USA . The visa itself is often issued for a full five years. The visa is merely permission to travel to the U.S. and ask for entry. How long you are allowed to work is determined by the petition (i.e. approval notice) and the I-94 form. The petition must therefore be presented together with the visa at the time of entry. The (electronic) form will be issued by a border official upon entry.

O visa or P visa - When do I apply for which visa?
While the O visa is usually suitable for individuals (possibly together with accompanying support personnel) who would like to perform in the USA or work in a company, the P visa is more suitable for groups of artists or athletes (sports team, string quartet, etc.) who would like to perform in the USA. Additionally, for athletes who would like to compete in the USA and receive not only prize money but also other compensation from a U.S. source, the P visa is the more appropriate visa category.